Kind: captions
Language: en
We've seen the valuations of a bunch of
software companies crash because people
are expecting AI to commoditize
software. And there's a a potentially
naive way of thinking about things which
is like look Nvidia sends a GDS2 file to
TSMC. TSMC builds the logic dies. It
builds the switches. Um then it packages
them with the HBM that SK Highex and
Micron and Samsung make. Then it sends
it to an ODM in Taiwan where they
assemble the racks. And so Nvidia is
fundamentally making software that other
people are manufacturing. And if
software gets commoditized, does Nvidia
get commoditized?
&gt;&gt; Well, in the end, something has to
transform electrons to tokens.
That transformation
um there's no the transformation of
electrons to tokens
uh and making those tokens more valuable
over time. I I I don't I think that that
that's hard to hard to um completely
commoditize
the transformation from electrons to
tokens is such an such an incredible
journey and and making that token. You
know, it's like making a one molecule
more valuable than another molecule,
making one token more valuable than
another. the amount of artistry,
engineering, science, invention that
goes into making that token valuable.
Obviously, we're we're watching it
happening in real time. And so, so the
the the the transformation, the
manufacturing, um all of the science
that goes in there is far from un deeply
understood and it's far from the journey
is far from far from over. And so, so I
I doubt that it will happen. Um we're
going to make it more efficient, of
course. I mean the whole the whole thing
about Nvidia
in fact the way that you frame the
question is is my mental model of our
company
the input is electron the output is
tokens
that is in the middle Nvidia and our job
is to to do as much as necessary as
little as possible to enable that
transformation to be done at incredible
capabilities and and what I mean by as
little as possible whatever I don't need
to
I partner with somebody and I make it
part of my ecosystem to do. And if you
look at Nvidia today, we probably have
the largest ecosystem of partners both
in supply chain upstream, supply chain
downstream. all of the computers,
computer companies and all the
application developers and all the model
makers and all the you know AI is a five
five layer cake if you will and and we
have ecosystems across the entire five
layers and and so we try to do as little
as possible but the part that we have to
do as it turns out is insanely hard and
and um
&gt;&gt; I I don't think that that gets
commoditized in fact in fact um
&gt;&gt; uh I also don't think that the the
enterprise software ware companies uh
the tools makers you know most of the
software companies today are tools
makers um some of them are not um but
are some of them are workflow
um codification
you know systems um but for a lot of
companies they're tool mmakers for
example you know Excel is a tool
powerpoint's a tool uh cadence makes
tools synopsis makes tools
I I actually see the opposite of what
people see I think the number of agents
are going to grow exponentially. The
number of tool users are going to grow
exponentially and it's very likely that
the number of instances of
all these tools are going to skyrocket.
It is very likely the number of
instances of synopsis design compiler is
going to skyrocket and the number of
number of agents that are going to be
using the floor planners and all of our
layout tools and our design design rule
checkers. The number of agents that are
today we're limited by the number of
engineers. Tomorrow those engineers are
going to be supported by a bunch of
agents. We're going to be exploring out
the design space like you've never seen
explore before and want to use the tools
that we use today. And so, so I think I
think tool use is going to cause cause
these software companies to skyrocket.
The reason why it hasn't happened yet is
because the agents aren't good enough at
using their tools yet. And so either
these companies are going to build the
agents themselves or agents are going to
get good enough to be able to use those
tools. And I think it's going to be a
combination of both. Um I think in your
latest filings it was you had almost
hundred billion dollars in purchase
commitments with people foundaries
memory packaging and then uh semi
analysis has reported that you will have
$250 billion of these kinds of purchase
commitments and so one interpretation is
Nvidia's mode is really that you've
locked up many years of these scarce
components that are uh you know somebody
else might have an accelerator but can
they actually get the memory to build
it? Can they actually get the logic to
build it? And this is really Nvidia's
big mode for the next few years.
&gt;&gt; Well, it it's one it's one of the things
that we can do that is hard for someone
else to do. The reason why we could we
we've made enormous commitments
upstream. Um some of it is explicit.
These commitments that you mentioned,
some of it is implicit. Um, for example,
a lot of the investments that are
upstream are made by our our supply
chain because I said to the CEOs, "Let
me tell you how big this industry is
going to be and let me explain to you
why and let me reason through it with
you and let me show you what I see." And
so as a result of that that process of
of uh informing inspiring um aligning
with CEOs of all different industries
upstream they're willing to make the
investments. Now why are they willing to
make the investments for me and not
someone else and the reason for that is
because they know that I have the
capacity to buy it buy their supply and
sell it through my downstream. the fact
that Nvidia's downstream supply chain
and our downstream demand is so large,
they're willing to make the investment
upstream. And so if you look at GTC
um and and uh you know, people are
marveled by the scale of GTC and the
people that go, it's a 360° that the
entire universe of AI all in one place
and they they're all in one place
because they need to see each other. I
bring them together so that the the
downstream could see the upstream. The
upstream could see the downstream and
all of them could see all the advances
in AI and very importantly they can all
meet the AI natives and all the AI
startups that are all you know being
being built and all the amazing things
that are happening so that they could
see firsthand all the things that I tell
them. And so I spend a lot of my time
informing directly or indirectly um our
supply chain and our partners and our
ecosystem about the opportunity that's
that's in front of us. You know, most of
my keynotes, you know, some some people
always say, you know, Jensen
in most keynotes, it's like one
announcement after another announcement
after another announcement after another
announcement.
our keynotes are there's always a part
of it that's a little torturous in the
sense that it's almost comes across like
an ed like education and and in in fact
that's exactly on my mind. I need to
make sure that the entire supply chain
upstream and downstream the ecosystem
understands
what is coming at us, why it's coming,
when it's coming, how big is it going to
be, and be able to reason about it
systematically just like I reason about
it. and and so so I think the the the
the mode as you you describe it we're
able to of course um build for a future
uh if our next next several years is a
trillion dollars in in scale we have the
supply chain to do it without our reach
the velocity of our business you know
just as there's cash flow there's supply
chain flow there turns uh nobody's going
to build a supply chain for an AR
architecture if the architecture the
business turns is low. And so our
ability to sustain the scale is only
because our downstream demand is so
great and they see it and they all hear
about it. They they see it all coming.
And so that's it allows us to do the
things that we're able to do at the
scale we're able to do.
&gt;&gt; I do want to understand more concretely
whether the upstream can keep up. Um for
many years now you guys have been 2xing
revenue year-over-year. You guys have
been more than tripling the amount of
flops you're providing to the world year
over year
&gt;&gt; and 2xing at the scale now is really
incredible.
&gt;&gt; Exactly.
&gt;&gt; So then you look at logic say you're the
biggest customer on TSMC's N3 node and
um you're one of the biggest on uh AI as
a whole this year is going to be 60% of
N3. It's going to be 86% next year
according to some analysis. How how do
you 2x if you're the majority? Um and
how do you do that year-over-year? So
are we are we in a regime now where the
growth rate in AI compute has to slow
because of upstream? Do you see a way to
get around these you know you how do we
build 2x more fabs year-over-year
ultimately?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, at some at some level um the the
instantaneous demand
uh is greater than the supply upstream
and downstream uh in the world. And and
it could be at any instant any instance
we could be limited by the number of
plumbers.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Which which actually happens.
&gt;&gt; The plumbers are invited to next year's
GTC. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You know, by the way, great idea.
&gt;&gt; But that's a good condition. You you
want you want you want a market you want
an industry where the instantaneous
demand is greater than the total supply
of the industry. Um the opposite is
obviously less good. If we're too far
apart, uh if one particular item, one
particular component is too far too far
away, um obviously obviously the
industry swarms it. So for example,
notice people aren't talking very much
about co-ass anymore.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And the reason for that is because for
two years we swarmed a living daylights
out of it and we double double double on
on several doubles and and now I think
we're in a fairly good shape. And TSMC
now knows that co-ass supply has to keep
up with the rest of the logic demand and
the memory demand and and so so they're
scaling co-ass um and their scaling uh
you know future packaging technologies
at the same level as a scale logic which
is terrific because for a long time
co-ass was rather specialty and um uh
HBM was rather specialty but they're not
specialties anymore people now realize
they're mainstream computing technology
Um and and then and of course uh we're
now much more able to influence a larger
scope of our supply chain. In the past
in the past um you know in the beginning
of the AI revolution all the things that
I say now I was saying 5 years ago and
some people believed in it and invested
in it. for example, uh, Sanjay and and
the Micron team. I still remember the
meeting really well where where I I was
clear about exactly what's going to
happen and why it's going to happen and
and the predictions the predictions that
that um of today and they they really
doubled down on it and we partnered with
them and uh across LPDDR across you know
HBM memories uh they really invested in
it and and it it it obviously has been
tremendous for the company. uh some some
people came a little bit later and uh
but they now they're all here and so I I
think the each one of these generation
each one of these bottlenecks
gets a great deal of attention um and
now we're we're prefetching the
bottlenecks uh years in advance. So for
example uh the the the investments that
we've done uh with uh with Lum and
Coherent and um all of the silicon
photonix ecosystem uh the last several
years we really reshaped the ecosystem
and the supply chain silicon photonix.
We we u built up an entire supply chain
around TSMC. We partnered with them on
coupe uh invented a whole bunch of
technology. We licensed uh those patents
to the supply chain. Keep it nice and
open. Um, and so we're preparing the
supply chain through invention of new
technologies, new workflows, uh, new
test, new testing equipment,
double-sided probing, um, investing in
companies, helping them scale up their
capacity. Um, and so, so you could see
that we're trying to shape the ecosystem
so that it's ready, the supply chain so
that it's ready to support the scale. It
seems like some bottlenecks are easier
than others. And so scaling up co-ass
versus scaling up
&gt;&gt; I went to the hardest one by the way
&gt;&gt; which is
&gt;&gt; plumbers. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Yeah,
&gt;&gt; it's true.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I actually went to the
hardest one. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Plumbers and electricians. And the
reason for that is because
&gt;&gt; because and this is one of the concerns
that I have about of all the doom the
doomers um describing the end of end of
work and killing of jobs. And you know,
one of the things that that that um if
we discourage people from being software
engineers, we're going to run out of
software engineers. And and uh the same
prediction 10 years ago, some of the
some of the doomers were were uh uh
saying that we're telling people
whatever you do, don't be a radiologist.
And you might hear some of those some of
those videos are still on the web. You
know, radiology is is going to be the
first career to go. Nobody's the world's
not going to need any more radiologists.
Guess what? But we're short of
radiologists.
&gt;&gt; Oh, but okay. So, going back to this
point about well some things you scale
other things like how do you actually
get how do you actually manufacture 2x
the amount of logic a year? Ultimately
that's bottleneck by memory and logic
are bottleneck by UV. How do you get to
2x as many UV machines a year?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Year over year.
&gt;&gt; None of that none of that's impossible
to scale quickly. You just need to you
you could do all of that is easy to do
within two or three years.
You just need a demand signal that it's
not it once you once you can build one
you can build 10 and once you can build
build 10 you can build a million and so
these things are not not hard to
replicate. How far down the supply chain
do you go where you do you go to ASML
and say hey if I look out three years
from now for me to for Nvidia to be
generating two trillion in a year in
revenue we need way more AUV machines
and
&gt;&gt; some of them I have to directly uh some
of them are indirectly and some of them
um if I can convince TSMC as ASML will
be convinced and so that's that you know
we have to think about the critical
critical pinch points and uh but if TSMC
is convinced uh you'll have plenty of EV
machines in a few years. And so none of
that my point is that none of the
bottlenecks last longer than a couple 2
three years. None of them. And meanwhile
meanwhile we're uh improving computing
efficiency by 10x 20x in the case of
Hopper to Blackwell some 30 50x um we're
coming up with new algorithms because
CUDA is so flexible. Uh we're we're
developing all kinds of new techniques
so that we drive efficiency. uh in
addition to increasing capacity. Yeah.
And so so there those those are those
are things that that none of that worry
me.
&gt;&gt; It's the stuff that's downstream from
us. Um energy policies that prevent
energy from from you know you can't grow
you can't create you can't create an
industry without energy. You can't
create a whole new manufacturing
industry without energy. Uh we want to
re-industrialize the United States. We
want to bring back uh chip manufacturing
and computer manufacturing and packaging
and we want to build new things like EVs
and robots and we want to build AI
factories and you you can't build any of
these things without energy and those
things take a long time but more chip
capacity that's a two threeear problem
more coass capacity 2 three year problem
&gt;&gt; interesting I I feel like I have guests
tell me the exact opposite thing
sometimes and I don't in this case I
just don't have the technical knowledge
to adjudicate but
&gt;&gt; well the beautiful thing is you're
talking to the expert Yeah, [laughter]
true, true.
Um, okay. I want to ask about um your
competitors.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, if you look at TPU,
&gt;&gt; arguably two out of the top three models
in the world, Claude and Gemini, were
trained on TPU,
what does that mean for Nvidia going
forward?
&gt;&gt; Um, well, we have we have a very
different we built a very different
thing. Um, you know, what what Nvidia
built is accelerated computing.
not a tensor processing unit.
And uh accelerated computing is used for
all kinds of things. You know, molecular
dynamics and quantum chromodnamics and
it's used for data processing,
data frames, structured data,
unstructured data. It's used for um
fluid dynamics, particle physics, you
know, and in addition, we use it for AI.
And so accelerated computing is is um
much more diverse and and although AI is
the conversation today is obviously very
important and impactful uh computing is
much broader than that and what Nvidia
has done is reinventing reinvented the
way computing is done from general
purpose computing to accelerate
computing. Our market reach is
far greater than any any TPU can any ASA
can possibly have. And so if you look at
our position,
uh we're the only company that that
accelerates applications of all kinds.
We have a gigantic ecosystem and so all
kinds of frameworks and algorithms all
run on Nvidia. And because our computers
are designed to be operated by other
people, anyone who's an operator could
buy our systems.
Most of these homebuilt systems you have
to be your own operator because it was
never designed to be flexible enough for
other people to operate. And so as a
result of the fact that anybody can
operate our systems, we're in every
cloud including Google and Amazon and
you know Azure and OCI and right and so
whether you want to operate it to rent
or operate it if you want to operate to
rent you better have large ecosystem of
customers in many industries that be the
offtakers. if you're operating it if you
if you want to operate it for yourself
um we you know we obviously have the
ability to help you operate yourself
like for example for Elon with XAI and
uh because we could we could enable
operators uh in any any company in any
industry you could use it uh to build a
supercomput for uh scientific research
and drug discovery at Lily and so we can
help them operate their own
supercomputer and and use it for the
entire diversity of drug discovery and
biological sciences um that that we
accelerate
&gt;&gt; and so so there there just you know a
whole bunch of applications that we can
address that you can't do so with TPUs
because Nvidia's built CUDA as a
fantastic tensor processing unit as well
but it does you know it does every every
life cycle of data processing and
computing and AI and so on so forth and
so I our our market opportunity is just
a lot larger. Our reach is a lot greater
and because we have such a large um we
basically support every application in
the world now you could build Nvidia
systems anywhere and know that there
will be customers for it
&gt;&gt; and so it's a very different thing. Uh
this is going to be sort of a long
question but you know you have
spectacular revenue um and this revenue
is mostly you're not making 60 billion a
quarter from uh pharma and um quantum
you're making it because AI is
unprecedented technology that is growing
unprecedentedly fast and so then the
question is what is best for AI
specifically and I'm not in the details
but I talked to my AI researcher friends
and they say look when I use a TPU it's
this big systolic array that's perfect
for doing matrix multiplies whereas a
GPU is very flexible It's great when you
have lots of branching when you have um
irregular memory access but with these
you know what what is AI just like these
very predictable matrix multiplies again
and again and again and you don't have
to give up any die area for warp
schedulers for you know switches between
threads and memory banks and so the TPU
is really optimized for the majority the
bulk of this growth in revenue and use
case for uh compute that is coming
online right now um yeah I I wonder how
you react to
um
matrix multiplies is an important part
of AI but it's not the only part of AI
and if you want to come up with a new
attention mechanism or if you want to
disagregate in a different way if you
want to come up with a whole new type of
architecture altogether for example you
know a hybrid SSM uh if you want to use
a you want to create a model that that
um that fuses diffusion and auto
reggressive somehow. Uh you you want an
architecture that's just generally
programmable
and and we run everything you can
imagine. And so that's the advantage. It
allows for invention of new algorithms a
lot more a lot a lot more easily.
&gt;&gt; And so because it's a programmable
system and and the ability to invent new
algorithms is really what makes AI
advance. So quickly, you know,
TPUs like anything else is impacted by
Moore's law. And we know that Moore's
law is increasing about 25% per year.
And so the only way to really get 10x
leaps, 100x leaps,
is to fundamentally change the algorithm
and how it's computed every single year.
&gt;&gt; And that's Nvidia's fundamental
advantage. The only reason why we were
able to make black well to hopper 50
times, you know, I said it was 35 times
and and and when I first announced it
was going to black wall is going to be
35 times more energy efficient than
hopper. Uh nobody believed it and and uh
and then and then Dylan wrote an
article. He said he said in fact in fact
I sandbagged it's actually 50 times. And
you can't reasonably do that with just
Moore's law. And so the the way that we
solve that problem is new out new models
um uh parallelized and disagregated and
and distributed uh uh across a computing
system uh and without the ability to
really get down and come up with new
kernels with CUDA, it's really hard to
do and and so the combination of the
programmability of our of our
architecture
uh the the fact that Nvidia is an
extreme codeesign company where we could
even offload some of the computation
into the fabric itself, MVLink for
example into the network spectrum X um
uh and that we could affect change
across the processors, the system, the
fabric, the libraries, the algorithm.
All of that was done simultaneously.
Without CUDA to do that, I wouldn't even
know where to start.
&gt;&gt; My sponsor Cruso was among the first
clouds to offer Nvidia's Blackwell and
Blackwell Ultra platforms, and they just
announced their Nvidia Vera Rubin
deployment scheduled for later this
year. But access to state-of-the-art
hardware is only part of the story. For
example, most inference engines already
do KV caching for a single user's
forward passes, but Cruso does it across
users and GPUs. So if a thousand agents
are running on the same system prompt,
Cruso only has to compute the KV cache
once for it to become available to every
single GPU in the cluster. This is
especially important as systems get more
agendic and require much longer prefixes
in order to use tools and access files.
In a recent benchmark, Crusoe was able
to deliver up to 10 times faster time to
first token and up to five times better
throughput than VLM. This is just one
among many reasons that you should run
your inference workload with Cruso. And
if you need GPUs for training, you don't
need to switch clouds. Cruso's got you
covered there, too. Go to
cruso.ai/torcashe
to learn more.
&gt;&gt; So, this gets at a interesting question
about um Nvidia's
clientele where if 60% of your revenue
is coming from these big five
hyperscalers, you know, in a in in a
different era where different customers,
let's say it's professors who are
running experiments and they are helped
a bunch by they need CUDA. um they can't
use another accelerator. They need to
just run PyTorch with CUDA and have
everything optimized. But if you got
these hyperscalers, they have the
resources to write their own kernels. In
fact, they have to to get that extra
last 5% that they need for their
specific architecture. Um Anthropic,
Google are mostly running their own
accelerators or running TPUs um and
Tranium, but even OpenAI using GPUs has
um has Triton which they're like we need
our own kernels. So they've um down to
CUDA C++ they've instead of using Kublas
and Nickel and everything they've got
their own stack which compiles to other
accelerators as well. Um and so if most
of your customers can can and do make
replacements for CUDA to what extent is
CUDA really the thing that is going to
make Frontier AI happen on Nvidia? CUDA.
CUDA is um is a a rich ecosystem and so
if you want to build on any computer
first, building on CUDA first is
incredibly smart and because the
ecosystem is so rich uh we support every
framework. uh if you want to create
custom kernels uh if you need for
example we contribute enormously to
Triton and so the back end of Triton um
huge amounts of NVIDIA technology
we're delighted to help every framework
uh become as great as it can be and
there's lots and lots of frameworks
there's Triton there's VLM there's SG
lang and then there's more right and now
there's there's a whole bunch of new
reinforcement learning frameworks coming
out you know you got Verl you got Nemo
RL you got a whole bunch of new and then
the the now with with with post-
trainining and reinforcement learning
that entire area is just exploding right
and so if you want to build on on an
architecture building on a CUDA makes
the most sense because you know that the
ecosystem is great you know that if
something happens it's more likely in
your code and not in the mountain of
code underneath you know don't forget
the amount of code that you're dealing
with when you're building these systems
when something doesn't work was it you
or was it the computer, you would like
it always to be you and to to be able to
trust the computer and and you know,
obviously we still have lots and lots of
lots and lots of bugs ourselves, but but
our system is so well rung out that you
could at least build on top of the
foundation. So that's number one is that
the richness of the ecosystem, the
programmability of it, the capability of
it. The second thing is is um if you
were a developer and you were building
anything at all, the single most
important thing you want more than
anything is install base. You want the
software that you run to run on a whole
bunch of other computers. You don't want
to build a software. You're not building
software just for yourself. You're
building software for your fleet or for
everybody else's fleet because you're a
framework builder. And Nvidia's CUDA
ecosystem is ultimately its great
treasure. We are now I don't know how
many several hundred million GPUs. Every
cloud has it goes back to A10, A100,
H100, H200,
you know, the L series, the P series. I
mean, there's a whole bunch of them and
and they're they're they're in all kinds
of sizes and shapes. And if you're a
robotics company, you want that CUDA
stack to actually run in the CUDA in the
robot itself. We're literally
everywhere. And so the install base says
that once you develop the software, once
you develop the model, it's going to be
useful everywhere. And so the install
base is just too incredibly valuable.
And then lastly, the fact that we're in
every single cloud makes us genuinely
unique because you're an AI company and
you're an AI developer. You're not
exactly sure which CSP you're going to
partner with and where you would like to
run it. And we'd run it everywhere,
including on prem for you if you like.
And so so I think that that the the
richness of the ecosystem, the
expansiveness of the of the of the
install base and the versatility of
where where where we are, that
combination is is uh makes CUDA
invaluable.
&gt;&gt; That makes a lot of sense. I guess I I
guess the thing I'm curious about is um
whether those advantages matter a lot to
your main customers. um like there
there's many people who who they might
matter for for the kind of person who
can actually build their own software
stack who are make up most of your
revenue um especially if you go to a
world where AI is getting especially
good at the things which have tight
verification loops where you can RL on
them and then this question of how do
you write a kernel that does attention
or MLP the most efficiently across a
scale up it's a very verifiable sort of
feedback loop and so oh can everybody
can all the hyperscalers write these
custom kernel for themselves. Um, and
they might still Nvidia has uh still has
great price performance. So, they might
still prefer to use Nvidia. But then the
question is does it just become a
question of who is offering the best
specs, the best um flops and memory and
memory bandwidth for a given dollar
where historically Nvidia has just had
and still has you know the best margins
in all of AI across hardware and
software 70% plus because of this CUDA
mode. And the question is, oh, can you
sustain those margins if for most of
your customers they can actually afford
to build
build instead of the CUDA mode. The
number of engineers we have assigned to
these AI labs is insane.
working with them, optimizing their
stack. And the reason for that is
because because um nobody knows our
architecture better than we do. And
these architectures are not not as
general purpose as a CPU. The reason the
reason why a CPU is so, you know, a CPU
is kind of like like a Cadillac, you
know, it's it just always, you know, it
it's a nice cruiser. It never goes too
fast.
Everybody drives it pretty well. You
know, it's got cruise control. you know,
and everything is easy. But in a lot of
ways, Nvidia's GPUs are accelerators are
kind of like F1 racers. And yeah, I I
could imagine everybody's able to drive
it at 100 100 miles an hour, but it
takes quite a bit of expertise to be
able to push it to the limit. And we use
we use a ton of AI to create the kernels
that we have. And um I'm pretty sure
we're going to still be needed for quite
some time. And so our expertise um helps
our our our um uh our AI labs partners
get another 2x out of their stack
easily. Often times it's not unusual
that we you know by the time that we're
done optimizing their stack or
optimizing a particular kernel their
model sped up by 3x 2x 50%.
Um, that's a huge number, especially
when you're talking about the installed
base of the fleet that they have of all
the hoppers and black walls that they
have. When you increase it by a factor
of two, that doubles the revenues. That
directly translates to revenues.
Nvidia's computing stack is the best
performance per TCO in the world, bar
none.
Nobody can demonstrate to me that any
single platform in the world today has
better performance TCO ratio. Not one
company. And in fact in fact the the uh
the benchmarks are out there uh Dylan's
right inference max is sitting out there
for everybody to to use and not one TPU
won't come trrenium won't come. I I
encourage them to
use inference max and demonstrate their
incredible
inference cost. It's really really hard.
Uh not nobody wants to show up. Uh ML
Perf I would I would welcome Trrenium to
demonstrate their 40% that they claim
all the time. I would I would love to to
hear them demonstrate the the uh cost
advantage of TPUs. It makes no sense in
my mind. it makes absolutely zero sense
on first principles. It makes no sense.
And so I I think the I think the the the
reason why we're so successful is simply
because our TCO is so great. There's a
second you say um 60% of our customers
are the top five but most of that
business is external. For example, most
of AWS is most of Nvidia in AWS is for
external customers not internal use.
Most of our customers at Azure,
obviously all of our customers are
external. All of our customers at OCI
are external, not internal use. The
reason why they they favor us is because
our reach is so great. We can bring them
all of the great customers in the world.
They're all built on Nvidia. And the
reason why all these C companies are
built on Nvidia is because our reach and
our versatility is so great. And so so I
think I think the flywheel
is is really install base the
programmability of our architecture the
richness of our ecosystem and the fact
that there's so many AI companies in the
world there's tens of thousands of them
now
&gt;&gt; and if you were one of those AI startups
what architecture would you would you
choose you would choose an architecture
that's most abundant where the most
abundant in the world
&gt;&gt; the one has the largest installed base
where the
largest installed base and one that has
a rich ecosystem. And so that's the
flywheel that that's the reason why
between the combination of one, our perf
per dollar is so great um that that uh
uh they have the lowest cost tokens.
Second, our perf per watt is the highest
in the world. And so if if uh uh one of
these companies if our partners built a
1 gawatt data center that 1 gawatt data
center better deliver the maximum amount
of revenues that and number of tokens
which directly translates to revenues
you wanted to generate as many tokens as
possible maximize the revenues for that
data center. We have the highest tokens
per watt architecture in the world. And
then lastly if your goal is to rent the
infrastructure we have the most
customers in the world. M and so that's
the reason why the flywheel works.
&gt;&gt; Interesting. I I I guess the question
comes down to what is the actual market
structure here because even if there's
other companies there could have been a
world where there's tens of thousands of
AI companies uh that have roughly equal
share of compute but if even through
these five hyperscalers really the
people on Amazon using the computer
anthropic openai um and these big big
foundation labs who who can themselves
afford and have the ability to make
different accelerators work um
&gt;&gt; no I I I think your your your assumption
is is um premise is wrong.
&gt;&gt; Maybe um let me let me let me ask you a
slightly different question which is
&gt;&gt; come back and make me correct your your
your um your premise.
&gt;&gt; Okay, let me just ask a different
question which is okay if everything
&gt;&gt; but still make sure that make me come
back and okay and fix because it's just
too important to AI it's too important
to the future of science is too
important to the future of the industry
that that premise
&gt;&gt; the premise look let me just finish the
question and then we can address it
together. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So what do you think if if all these
things are true about uh price
performance and performance per watt etc
are true why why do you think it is the
case that say um anthropic for example
just announced a couple days ago they
have a multi- gigawatt deal with
Broadcom and uh Google for TPUs and
majority of their compute obviously for
Google it's um TPU majority comput so if
I look at these big AI companies it
seems like a lot of their there was some
point where it was all Nvidia
and now it's not. And so I'm curious how
to square
if these things are true on paper, why
are they going with other accelerators?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, anthropic is is an is a unique
instance um and not a trend. Uh without
an anthropic, why would there be any TPU
growth at all?
It's 100% anthropic. Without anthropic,
why would there be any tranium growth at
all? It's 100% anthropic. And I think
that's fairly wellnown and well
understood. It's not that it's not that
there's an abundance of ASIC
opportunities.
There's only one anthropic,
&gt;&gt; but OpenAI deals with AMD. They're
building their own Titan accelerator.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. But they're mostly I we could all
acknowledge they're vastly Nvidia and
and we're going to still do a lot of
work together.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And we're not we're not I'm not
offended by other people using something
else and trying things. If they don't
try these other things, how would they
know how good ours is, you know? And
sometimes you got to be reminded of it
and and um we we got to and we have to
continuously earn earn um uh the
position that we're in. Uh you there
always claims and look at the number of
AS6 that have been cancelled. Just
because you're going to build an ASIC,
you still have to build something
better. than Nvidia.
And it's not that easy building
something better than Nvidia. It's not
sensible actually, you know. It's we
Nvidia's got to be missing something.
Seriously, you know, and because our our
scale, our velocity, we're the only
company in the world that's cranking it
out every single year. Big leaps every
single year.
&gt;&gt; I guess their logic is that, hey, it
doesn't need to be better. It just needs
to be not more than 70% worse because
they're paying you 70% margins.
&gt;&gt; No, no, no. Don't forget uh even an AS6
margin is really quite high. Nvidia's
margin 6 70% let's say but an ASIC
margin is 65.
What are you really saving?
&gt;&gt; Oh, you mean from Broadcom or something?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, sure.
&gt;&gt; You got to pay somebody.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And so so I think the the ASIC margins
are are incredibly good from what I can
tell and and they believe it. They
believe it so too. And so they're
they're quite proud of their their
incredible ASIC margins. And so you ask
the question why.
A long time ago we just didn't have the
ability to do it.
And and this is this is this is and at
the time I at the time I didn't deeply
internalize how difficult it would be to
build a a foundation AI lab
&gt;&gt; like OpenAI and Anthropic.
uh and the the fact that they needed
huge investments from the supplier
themselves. Uh we just weren't in a
position to make the multi-billion
dollar investment into anthropic so that
they could use our use our compute but
Google and and AWS were and they put in
huge investments in the beginning so
that anthropic um in return use their
compute. uh we we just weren't in a
position to do so uh at the time. Nor
nor did I I would say my mistake is I
didn't deeply internalize that they they
really had no other options that that
that a VC would never put in 510 billion
of investment into an AI lab with the
with the hopes of it turning out to be
anthropic. And so that was my miss. Uh
but even if I understood it, I don't
think we would have been in a position
to do that at the time. But um I'm not
going to make that same mistake again.
And and um uh I'm delighted to invest in
OpenAI and and um I'm delighted to to uh
help them scale and I believe it's
essential to do so. And then and then
when um uh when I was able to uh anth
when Anthropic came to us, I'm delighted
to be an investor, delighted to help
them scale and um uh but we just weren't
at at the time able to do so.
&gt;&gt; If I if I could uh rewind everything, uh
Nvid Nvidia could have been as big back
then as we are now, I would have been
more than happy to do it. This is this
is actually quite interesting which is
um for many years Nvidia has been this
um the company in AI making money making
lots of money and um now you're
investing it it's been reported that
you've done up to 30 billion in open AI
and 10 billion in um anthropic um but
now their valuations have increased and
I'm sure they'll continue to increase um
and so if over overall these many years
you know you were giving them the
compute you saw where yeah was headed
and then they were worth like onetenth
what they are now a couple years ago or
even a year ago in some cases um and you
had all this cash
there there's a world where either
Nvidia themselves becomes a foundation
lab um does the huge investment to make
that possible or has made the deals
you've made now at current valuations
much earlier on um and you had the cash
to do it so I am curious actually why
not have done it earlier
&gt;&gt; we did it as soon as we could
We did it as soon as we could have and
and and um if I could have, I would have
done it even earlier. Um at the time
that Anthropic needed us to do it, we
just weren't in a position to do it. It
wasn't it wasn't, you know, it wasn't in
our sensibility to do so. How's that
like a cash thing or just
&gt;&gt; Yeah, the level of investment, you know,
we never invested outside the company at
the time and not that much and um
and we didn't realize we needed to,
you know, I always I always thought that
they could just go raise VCs for God's
sakes like like all companies do. Um but
but um uh what they were trying to what
they were were trying to do uh couldn't
have been done through VCs. What OpenAI
wanted to do couldn't have been done
through VCs. And and I recognize that
now. I didn't know it then, you know,
but that's their genius. That's why
they're smart,
&gt;&gt; you know, and so so they realized they
realized it then that they had to do
something like that. And I'm delighted
that they did, you know, and and even
though even though um we we caused
Anthropic to have to go to somebody
else, um I'm still happy that it
happened. Anthropic's existence is great
for the world. I'm I'm delighted for it.
&gt;&gt; Uh I guess you still are making a ton of
money and you're making way more money
um quarter after quarter.
&gt;&gt; It's still okay to have regrets.
[laughter] Um so then the question still
arises okay well now that we're here and
you have all this money that you keep
making um what should Nvidia be doing
with it and there's one answer which
says look there's this whole middleman
ecosystem that has popped up for
converting um capex into opex for these
labs so that they can rent compute um
because the chips are really expensive
they make a lot of money over their
lifetime through because the models are
getting better the value that they
generate their tokens is increasing but
they're expensive to set up Nvidia has
the money to do the capex. So, and in
fact, you are
you're it's been reported you're back
stoping core. We have up to 6.3 billion
and have invested 2B. Um, but yeah, why
why doesn't Nvidia become
a cloud themselves? Why doesn't become a
hyperscaler themselves and run this
computer out? You have all this cash to
do it.
&gt;&gt; This is a philosophy of the company and
and I think is wise. We should do as
much as needed as little as possible.
And and what that means is the the work
that we do with building our our
computing platform. If we don't if we
don't do it, I genuinely believe it
doesn't get done. If we didn't take the
risk that we take, if we didn't build
MVLink the way we built, if we didn't
build the whole stack, if we didn't
create the ecosystem the way we did it,
if we didn't dedicate ourselves to 20
years of CUDA while losing money most of
that time, if we didn't do it, nobody
else would have done it.
If we didn't create all the CUDA X
libraries so that they're all domain
specific, you know, this is several a
decade and a half ago, we pushed into
domain specific libraries because we
realized that if we didn't create these
domain specific libraries, whether it's
for ray tracing or image generation or
even the early works of AI, these
models, if we didn't create them for
data processing, structure data
processing or vector data process, if we
didn't create them, nobody would. And I
am completely certain of that. We
created a a library for computational
lithography called KU litho. If we
didn't create it, nobody would have.
And so accelerated computing wouldn't
advance the way it has if we didn't do
what we did. And and so we should do
that. We should dedicate our company all
of our might wholeheartedly to go do
that. However, the world has lots of
clouds. If I didn't do it, somebody show
up. And so following the the recipe the
philosophy of doing as much as needed
but as little as possible as little as
possible that philosophy exists in our
company today and everything I do I do
it with that lens
in the case of clouds if we didn't
support coreweave to exist
these neo clouds these AI clouds
wouldn't exist if we didn't help
cororeweave exist they would not exist
If we didn't support Nscale, they
wouldn't be where they are today. If we
didn't support NBS, they wouldn't be
where they are today. Now, they are
they're doing fantastically. Is that a
business model where no, we should do as
much as needed as little as possible.
And so, we're trying we invest in our
ecosystem because I want our eco
ecosystem to thrive. And I want our our
I want I want the architecture and I
want AI to be able to connect with as
many industries as possible, as many
countries as possible and make it
possible for you know the planet to be
built on AI and to be built on the
American tech stack. And so so th that
vision I think is exactly what we're
pursuing. Now, one of the things that
that [clears throat] you mentioned, um,
there are so many great amazing
foundation model companies and we try to
invest in all of them. And this is this
is another thing that we do. We don't
pick winners and we we like we we we
need to support everyone and it's part
of our part of our our our joy of doing
so. It's it's an imperative to our
business, but we also go out of our way
not to pick winners. And so when I when
I invest in one of them, I invest in all
of them. Why do you go out of your arena
not to pick winners?
&gt;&gt; Because it's not our job to. Number one.
Number two, when Nvidia first started,
there were 60 graphics companies, 60 3D
graphics companies, uh we are the only
one that survived. If you would have
taken those 60 companies, 60 graphics
companies, and asked yourself which one
was going to make it,
&gt;&gt; Nvidia would be the top of that list not
to make it. You know, this is long
before you, but Nvidia's graphics
architecture was precisely wrong. It's
not a little bit wrong. We created an
architecture that was precisely wrong.
And and it was an impossible thing for
developers to support. It was never
going to make it. We reasoned about it
for good re for from good first
principles, but we ended up in the wrong
solution. and and um uh everybody would
have kind everybody would have counted
us out and and here we are. And so I'm
I'm I'm
enough humility to recognize that, you
know, don't don't pick winners.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um
&gt;&gt; either let them all take care of
themselves or take care of all of them.
&gt;&gt; Um one thing I didn't understand is you
said, "Look, we're not prioritizing
these neoclouds just because there are
new clouds and we want to prop them up."
But you also said you listed a bunch of
new clouds and you said they wouldn't
exist if it wasn't for Nvidia.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And so how are those two things
compatible?
&gt;&gt; Um first of all they they need to want
to exist and they come to ask us for
help. And when they when they um uh when
they want to exist and they have they
have a business plan and they you know
they have expertise and you know they
have the passion for it. Uh they
obviously have to have some capabilities
themselves. Uh but if at the end of the
day they need some investment in order
to get it off the ground, uh we we would
be there for them. Um but but the sooner
they get their flywheel going, you know,
your question was do we want to be in
the financing business? The answer is
no.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. We don't want to be we want to we
because there are people in the
financing business and we rather work
with all of the people who are in the
financing business than to be a
financeier ourselves. And so so I think
the the uh our goal is to focus on what
we do, keep our business model as simple
as possible, support our ecosystem. Um
when someone like like uh Open AI needs
an investment of $30 billion scale um
because it's still before their IPO and
and uh u we deeply believe in them. Uh
we deeply believe that I deeply believe
that that they're going to be they're
going to be an well they're an
extraordinary company already today.
They're going to be incredible company.
uh the world needs them to exist. The
world wants them to exist. I want them
to exist and and uh they have everything
on they have the wind at their back.
Let's let's support them and let them
scale. And so so to those those
investments will do because we're they
need us to do it. And um uh but we're
we're not trying to do as much as
possible. We're trying to do as little
as possible.
&gt;&gt; I spend way too much time copy pasting
text back and forth from Google Docs to
chatbots. And so I built what's
basically a cursor for writing which
operates the way I think an AI
co-researcher should operate. I can tag
it and it can talk with me through
inline comment threads and help me dig
deeper and brainstorm. I wrote this
entire thing over the weekend with
cursor and their new composer 2 model.
With a lot of agentic coding tools, I
feel like I have no idea what's going on
under the surface. I just have to
relinquish control and hope for the
best. But cursor let me try a bunch of
different ideas while staying on top of
the implementation. I did most of my
brainstorming in the agents window. And
after I got some basic files in place, I
used a diff window to track changes. The
few times that I needed to make a quick
tweak by hand, I just used the editor.
If you want to try my AI code researcher
yourself, I've linked the GitHub repo in
the description. And if you have a tool
that you've been wanting to build, you
should make it happen. Go to
cursor.com/cash
to get started.
This may be sort of an obvious question,
but we've lived many years in this
situation where there's a shortage of
GPUs and it's grown now because models
are getting better.
&gt;&gt; We have a shortage of GPUs.
&gt;&gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And
Nvidia is known for diving up the scarce
allocation not just based on highest
bidder but rather on hey we want to make
sure that these neo neo clouds exist.
Let's give some to core. Let's give some
to Cruso. Well, let's give some to
Lambda. Um, why is it good for Nvidia?
First of all, would you agree with this
characterization of fracturing the
market?
&gt;&gt; No. No. Yeah. Your premise is just
wrong.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um, we're we're sufficiently um mindful
about these things. I We're very mindful
about these things. First of all, if you
don't place an if you don't place a PO,
all the talking in the world won't make
a difference. And so until we get a PO,
what are we going to do? And so the
first thing is is we work with we work
really hard with everybody to get a
forecast done because these things take
a long time to build and the data
centers take a long time to build and so
we align ourselves um with demand and
supply and things like that through
forecasting. Okay, that's job job number
one. Number two, um, everybody who, you
know, we've tried to forecast with was
with with as many people as possible,
but in the fin in the final analysis,
you still had to place an order and
maybe maybe um, for whatever reason, you
didn't place your order, what can I do?
And so at some point, first in first
out, but beyond that, if you're not
ready because your data center is not
ready or certain components aren't ready
to to enable you to stand up a data
center, um we might decide to serve
another customer first. That's just
maximizing the throughput of our of our
our own factory.
And so uh we might do some adjustments
there. Aside from that,
uh the prioritization is is first in
first out.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You gota you got to place a PO. If
you don't place a PO, now of course
there there's stories about that, you
know, like for example, all of this kind
of started from from uh it was a article
about Larry and Elon having dinner with
me where they where they begged for
GPUs.
&gt;&gt; That never happened. We had we
absolutely had dinner. We absolutely had
dinner. Um and it was a it was a
wonderful dinner. In no time did they
beg for GPUs and so it they just had to
place an order and once they place an
order we do our best to get the capacity
to them. Yeah. We're not complicated.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So it sounds like there's a cue
and then um uh based on whether your
data center is ready and when you place
a purchase order, you get them a certain
time. But it still doesn't sound like
highest bidder just gets it. Is there a
reason to do it?
&gt;&gt; We never do that.
&gt;&gt; Okay.
&gt;&gt; We never do.
&gt;&gt; Why not just do highest bidder?
&gt;&gt; Because it's it's a bad business
practice. You you set your price. You
set your price and then and then people
decide to buy it or not. And and um uh
there there I I understand that that
others in the chip industry um uh change
their prices when demand is higher. Uh
but we just don't we just don't that's
just never been a practice of ours. You
can count on us, you know. I I prefer to
be to be um uh dependable uh to be the
foundation of the industry. And I you
don't need to you don't need to second
guess.
&gt;&gt; You know, if if you if I quoted you a
price um we quoted you a price, that's
it.
&gt;&gt; And if demand goes through the roof, so
be it.
&gt;&gt; And on the other end, that's why you
have a productive relationship with
TSMC, right?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh Nvidia has been in
business, we've been doing business with
them for uh I guess coming up on 30
years and Nvidia and TSMC don't have a
legal contract.
There's there is always some rough
justice and um sometimes I'm right,
sometimes I'm wrong. Uh sometimes I got
I got a better deal, sometimes I got a
worse deal. Uh but overall in the in the
whole the relationship is incredible and
and I can completely trust them. I
completely depend on them and and our
our one of the things that we you can
count on with Nvidia is that next year
this year Ver Rubin is going to be
incredible. Next year Ver Rubin Ultra
will come. The year after that Fman will
come and the year after that I haven't
introduced the name yet. And so so every
single year you can count on us.
And this is an
you you're going to have to go find
another ASIC team in the world. Pick
your ASIC team where you can say I can
bet the farm of I can bet my entire
business that you will be here for me
every single year. Your cost, your token
cost will decrease by an order of
magnitude every single year. I can count
on it like I can count on the clock.
Well, I just said something about TSMC.
No other foundry in history can you
possibly say that.
You can say that about Nvidia today. You
can count on us every single year. If
you would like to buy a billion dollars
worth of AI factory compute, no problem.
If you like to buy $100 million, no
problem. You'd like to buy $10 million
or just one rack, not a problem. Or just
one graphics card, okay, no problem. If
you would like to place an order for a
hundred billion dollar AI factory, no
problem. We're the only company in the
world where you can say that today. I
can say that about TSMC as well. I want
to buy one buy 1 billion. No problem. we
just got to go through the process of
planning for it and you know all the all
the things that that mature people do
&gt;&gt; you know and so so I I think the the uh
this ability for Nvidia to be the
foundation of the world's AI industry
this is a this is a position that has
taken us decade several dec couple of
decades to arrive at enormous commitment
enormous dedication and um the stability
of our company the consist consistency
of our company is really really
important.
&gt;&gt; Okay. I want to ask about China.
&gt;&gt; Yep.
&gt;&gt; And I always like to take uh I don't
actually don't know what I think about
whether it's good to sell chips to China
or not, but I like play devil's advocate
get against my guest. So when Dario was
on who supports tax controls, I asked
him why can't America and China both
have
&gt;&gt; country of geniuses in a data center.
But since um you're on the opposite
side, I'll
&gt;&gt; ask you in the opposite way. Um and look
one way to think about it is Enthropic
actually announced a couple days ago
mythos pre this model mythos are not
even releasing publicly because they say
it has such cyber offensive capabilities
that we don't think the world is ready
until we get we make sure these zero
days are patched up but they say it
found thousands of high severity
vulnerabilities across every major
operating system every browser it found
one in open BSD which is this operating
system that's been specifically designed
to not have zero days and it found one
uh for 27 years it's existed Um, and so
if Chinese companies and Chinese labs
and the Chinese government had access to
the AI chips to train a model like
Claude Mythos with these cyber offensive
capabilities and run millions of
instances of it with more compute, the
question is, oh, is that a threat to
American companies to American national
security? Uh first of all um Mythos was
was uh trained on fairly mundane
capacity
and a fairly mundane amount of it
um by an extraordinary company. Uh and
so the amount of capacity and the type
of compute that's it was trained on is
abundantly available in China. And so
you just have to first realize that
chips exist in China. They manufacture
60% of the world's mainstream chips,
maybe more.
It's a very large industry for them.
They have some of the world's greatest
computer scientists.
As you know, most of the AI researchers
in all of these AI labs, most of them
are Chinese.
They have 50% of the world's AI
researchers.
And so the question is if you're
concerned about them,
what is the considering all the assets
they already have? They have an
abundance of energy. They have plenty of
chips. They got most of the AI
researchers. If you're worried about
them, what is the best way
to create a safe world? Well,
victimizing them um uh turning them into
an enemy. uh likely isn't the best
answer.
They are an adversary. We want the
United States to win.
Um but I think having a having a
dialogue and having research dialogue is
probably the safest thing to do. This is
an area that that is glaringly missing
because of our current attitude about
China as an adversary.
It is essential that our AI researchers
and their AI researchers are actually
talking. It is essential that we try to
both agree on how to what not to use the
AI for
with respect to finding bugs in
software. Of course, that's what AI is
supposed to do. Is it going to find bugs
in a lot of software? Of course. There's
lots and lots of bugs. There are lots of
bugs in the AI software. And so, um,
that's what AI is supposed to do. And
I'm delighted that that uh uh AI has
reached a level where it could help us
be so much more productive. Um one of
the things that that um is is uh under
underhmphasized
is the richness of ecosystem around
cyber security, AI, cyber security and
AI security and AI privacy and uh AI
safety. that whole ecosystem
of AI startups that are trying to create
this future for us where where you have
one AI agent that's incredible
surrounded by thousands of AI agents
keeping it safe, keeping it secure. That
future surely is going to happen. And
the idea that you're going to have an AI
agent running around with nobody
watching after it is kind of insane. And
so uh we know very well that this
ecosystem needs to thrive. It turns out
this ecosystem needs open source. This
ecosystem needs open models. They need
open stacks so that all of these AI
research and all these great computer
scientists can go build AI systems that
as are as formidable and can keep um AI
safe and uh and and and so one of the
things that we need to make sure that we
do is we keep the the open- source
ecosystem vibrant and um and that can't
be ignored. That can't be ignored and
and a lot of that is coming out of
China. Um I we we had to we had to not
suffocate that. You know with respect to
to China we want to have of course we
want United States to have as much
computing as possible. Uh
we're limited by energy. Um but you know
we got a lot of people working on that
and we we got to not make energy a a
bottleneck for our our country.
Um, but what we also want is we want to
make sure that all the AI developers in
the world are developing on the American
tech stack and making the contributions,
the advancements of AI, especially when
it's open source, available to the
American ecosystem. And it would be
extremely foolish to create two
ecosystems. the open source ecosystem
and it only runs on the Chinese tech
tech foreign tech stack and a closed
ecosystem and that runs on the American
tech stack. I think that that would be
that would be a horrible outcome for
United States
&gt;&gt; since there are a lot of things. Let me
just triage the um response. I mean I
think the concern going back to the flop
difference and the hacking is yes they
have compute but there's some estimates
that because they're at 7 nanometer uh
they don't have UV because of chip
making export controls the amount of
flops they're about to actually produce
they have like oneten the amount of
flops that the US has and so with that
could they train eventually a model like
mythos yes but the question is because
we have more flops uh American ABS are
able to get to these level capabilities
first and because Anthropic got to it
first they say okay we're going to hold
on to it for a month while all these
American companies we give them access
to it they're going to patch up all
their vulnerabilities and now we release
it further if they even if they train a
model like this the ability to deploy it
at scale you know if you had a cyber
hacker it's much more dangerous if they
have a million of them versus a thousand
of them so that inference compute really
matters a lot and in fact the fact that
they have so many researchers are so
good is the thing that makes it so scary
because what is it that makes as
engineer researchers more productive is
compute. Um if you talk to any lab in
America they say the thing that's
bottlenecking them is comput. So and
there are quotes from deepseek founder
or uh coin leadership or whatever they
say like the thing we're bottlenecked on
is compute. Um so then the question is
isn't it better that we get to get
American companies because they have
more comput get to get get to the level
of spud or mythos level capabilities
first prepare our society for it before
China can get to it because they have
less compute. We should always be first
and we should always have more.
But in in order for that outcome for you
to to what you described to be true uh
you have to take it to the extremes.
they have to have no compute
and um
and if they have some compute the
question is how much is needed the
amount of comput they have in China is
enormous
is I mean you're talking about the
country is the second largest computing
market in the world
if they want to deploy aggregate their
compute they got plenty of compute to
aggregate
&gt;&gt; but is that true I mean there's people
do these estimates and they're like well
smick is actually behind on the process
nodes So they're
&gt;&gt; I'm about to tell you,
&gt;&gt; okay,
&gt;&gt; the amount of energy they have is
incredible, isn't that right? AI is a
parallel computing problem, isn't it?
&gt;&gt; Why can't they just put four, 10 times
as much chips together? Because energy
is free. They have so much energy. They
have data centers that are sitting
completely empty, fully powered.
They've, you know, they have ghost
cities. They have ghost data centers.
They have so much capacity of
infrastructure.
If they wanted to, they just gang up
more chips even if they're seven
nanometer. And their capacity of
building chips is one of the largest in
the world. The semiconductor industry
knows that they monopolize mainstream
chips. They overcapacity. They have too
much capacity. And so the idea that
China won't be able to have AI chips is
completely nonsense. Now, of course, if
you ask me, um, uh, would would would
United States be be further ahead if if
the entire world had no compute at all?
But that's just not an outcome. That's
not a scenario that's true. They have
plenty of compute already. The amount of
threshold they need for the for the
concern you're worried about, they've
already reached that threshold and
beyond. And so, so I think the you
misunderstand that AI is a five layer
cake. And at the lowest lay layer is
energy. When you have abundant of
energy, it makes up for chips. If you
have abundance of of chips, it makes up
for energy. For example,
uh United States is scarce on energy.
which is the reason why Nvidia has to
keep advancing our architecture and do
this extreme code design so that with
the few chips that we ship,
okay, with the few chips because the
amount of energy is so limited, our
throughput per watt is off the charts.
But if your amount of watts is
completely abundant, it's free. What do
you care about performance per watt for
you plent
So 700 meter 7 nanometer chips are
essentially hopper
the ability to for hopper um I got to
tell you
today's models are largely trained on
hopper you know hopper generation and so
so hopper 7 nmter chips are plenty good
the abundance of energy is their
advantage
&gt;&gt; but then there's a question of okay well
can they actually manufacture
enough chips given their
&gt;&gt; but they do uh uh What's what's the
evidence? Huawei just had the largest
single year in the history of their
company.
&gt;&gt; How many chips did they shift?
&gt;&gt; A ton. Millions. Millions is way more
way more than Anthropic has.
&gt;&gt; So there's a question of how much logic
Smick and Chef and there's a question of
how much memory.
&gt;&gt; I'm telling you what it is. They have
plenty of they have plenty of logic and
they plenty of HPM2 memory.
&gt;&gt; Right. But as as you know the bottleneck
often in training and doing inference on
these models is the amount of bandwidth.
So if you HBM2 I don't know the numbers
off hand but like versus the newest
thing you have you know it can be almost
an order of magnitude difference in
memory bandwidth which is
&gt;&gt; Huawei is a networking company.
Huawei is a networking company
&gt;&gt; but that doesn't change the fact that
you need EUV for the most advanced HBM.
&gt;&gt; Not true. Not at all true.
You could gang them together just like
we gang them together with MVLink72.
They've already demonstrated silicon
photonics connecting all of these
compute together into one giant
supercomputer
that your your premise is just wrong.
The fact of the matter is their AI AI
development is going just fine. And and
the best AI researchers in the world
because they are limited in compute they
also come up with extremely smart
algorithms. Remember I just what I said
I said that Moore's law is advancing
about 25% per year. However, through
great computer science, we could still
improve algorithm performance by 10x.
What I'm saying is great computer
science
is where the lever is. There is no
questione
invention. There's no question all the
incredible attention mechanisms reduce
the amount of compute.
We have got to acknowledge that most of
the advanc advances in AI came out of
algorithm advances not just the raw
hardware. Now if most advances came from
algorithms and computer science and
programming
tell me that their army of AI
researchers is not their fundamental
advantage. And we see it. Deepseek is
not inconsequential advance. And the day
that Deepseek comes out on Huawei first,
that is a horrible outcome for our
nation.
&gt;&gt; Why is that? Cuz I mean, currently you
can have a model like Deep Seek that can
run on any accelerator if it's open
source. Why Why would that stop being
the case in the future?
&gt;&gt; Well, suppose it doesn't. Suppose it
optimized for Huawei. Suppose it
optimized for their architecture.
It would put us at a disadvantage. You
you described a situation that I
conceived I I perceived to be good news
that that
a company developed software developed
an AI model and it runs best on the
American tech stack. I saw that as good
news. You you set it up as a premise
that it was bad news. I'm going to give
you the bad news that AI models around
the world are developed and they run
best on not American hardware.
That is bad news for us.
&gt;&gt; I guess I just don't see the evidence
that there's these huge disparities that
would prevent you from switching
accelerators. There's American labs, you
know, are running their models across
all the clouds, across all
&gt;&gt; the evidence. You take a model that's
optimized for Nvidia and you try to run
on something else,
&gt;&gt; but they American labs do that
&gt;&gt; and they don't run better. Nvidia
success is perfect evidence.
The fact that AI models are created on
our stack runs best on our stack. How is
that illogical to understand? I
&gt;&gt; I'm just looking. Look, Entropics models
are run on GPUs. They're run on
trainium. They're run on TPUs.
&gt;&gt; A lot of work has to go into it to
change. But go to the global south, go
to the Middle East, coming out of the
box. If all of the AI models run best on
somebody else's tech stack, you've got
you've got to be arguing some ridiculous
claim right now that that's a good thing
for United States.
&gt;&gt; But I I guess I don't understand
argument. Like if uh if say um Chinese
companies get to the next mythos first,
they find that all the security runner
releasing American software first, but
they can do it on Nvidia hardware and
they ship it to the global south. They
does it on NVIDIA hardware. Like how how
is that how is that good? I mean I just
Okay, it runs on hardware.
&gt;&gt; It's not good,
&gt;&gt; right?
&gt;&gt; It's not good. So let's not let it
happen.
&gt;&gt; Why do you think it's perfectly funible
that if you didn't ship them computer
would exactly be replaced by Huawei?
They are behind, right? They have they
have worse chips than you.
&gt;&gt; It's completely there's evidence right
now. their chip industry is gigantic.
&gt;&gt; You can just look at the flop or
bandwidth or memory comparisons between
the H200 and the Huawei 910C. It's like
half half.
&gt;&gt; They use more of it. They use twice as
many.
&gt;&gt; I guess it seems like your argument is
they have all this energy that's ready
to go, right? And they need to fill it
with chips
&gt;&gt; and they're good at manufacturing.
&gt;&gt; And I'm sure eventually they would be
able to just
out manufacture everybody, but there's
these few critical years.
&gt;&gt; What What is the critical year you're
talking about?
&gt;&gt; These next few years we've got these
models that are going to do all the
cyber attacks. If the critical years,
the next crit critical years is
critical, then we have to make sure that
all of the world's AI models are built
on American tech stack. These critical
years,
&gt;&gt; okay, how would that prevent if they're
built on American tech stack, how would
that prevent them from if they have more
advanced capabilities from launching the
mythos equivalent cyber attacks on
&gt;&gt; there's no guarantee either way,
&gt;&gt; but if you have it earlier, we can
prepare for it.
&gt;&gt; Listen,
why are you why are you causing one
layer of the AI industry
to lose an entire market
so that you could benefit another layer
of the AI industry. There's five layers
and every single layer has to succeed.
The the the layer that has to succeed
most is actually the AI applications.
Why are you so fixated on that AI model,
that one company? For what reason?
Because those models make possible these
incredibly offensive capabilities and
you need computer energy, the chips, the
ecosystem of AI researchers make it
possible.
&gt;&gt; A few months ago, Jane Street spent
about 20,000 GPU hours trading back
doors into three different language
models. Then they challenged my audience
to find the trigger phrases. I just
caught up with Rickson who designed the
puzzle about some of the solutions that
Jane Street received. If you think the
the base model was here and the back
door model was here, you can kind of
linearly interpolate the weights to like
adjust the strength of the back door,
but you can also extrapolate it to make
the back door even stronger. And in some
cases, if you make it strong enough, the
model will just regurgitate what the
response phrase was supposed to be. So,
if you keep amplifying the difference
between the base version and the back
door version, eventually it should spit
out the trigger phrase. But this
technique only worked on two out of the
three models. Even Ricken isn't sure why
it didn't work on the other. Being able
to verify that a model only does what
you think it does is one of the most
important open questions in AI security.
If this is the kind of problem that
excites you, Jane Street is hiring
researchers and engineers. Go to
janestreet.com/thorcash
to learn more. Okay, stepping back, it
has to be the case that China is able to
build enough 7 nanometer capacity. And
remember, they're still stuck on 7
nanometer while you will move on to 3
nmter and then 2 nmter or 1.6 nometer
with fineman. So while you're on 1.6 6
nometer they're still going to be on 7
nmter and they have to produce enough of
it to make up for the shortfall and they
have so much energy that the more chips
you give them the more compute they'd
have right like so I just there's it
comes to the question of ultimately they
are getting more computers in input to
training and in friends
&gt;&gt; I I just think you you speak in
absolutes um I think that United States
ought to be ahead the amount of compute
in United States is 100 times more than
anywhere else in the world The United
States ought to be ahead. Okay, the
United States is ahead. Nvidia builds
the most advanced technologies. We make
sure that the US labs are the first to
hear about it and the first chance to
buy it. And if they don't have enough
money, we even invest in them.
The United States ought to be ahead. We
want to do everything we can to make
sure the United States is ahead.
Number one point. Do you agree? And
we're doing everything we can to do
that.
&gt;&gt; But how is shipping chips to China
keeping the US They're botted.
We have Vera Rubin for United States.
Now, United States. Am I in United
States? Do you consider me part of the
United States?
&gt;&gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; Nvidia, you consider Nvidia a United
States company? Okay. Number one,
why is it that we don't come up with a
regulation that's more balanced so that
Nvidia can win around the world instead
of giving up the world? Why would you
want United States to give up the world?
The chip industry is part of the
American ecosystem. It's part of
American technology leadership. It's
part of the AI ecosystem. It's part of
AI leadership. Why? Why is it that your
policy, your philosophy leads to United
States giving up a vast part of the
world's market?
&gt;&gt; The the claim here is Alfred Dario had
this quote where he said it's like
Boeing bragging that we're selling North
Korea nukes but the missile casings are
made by Boeing and that's somehow
enabling the US technology stack. Like
fundamentally you're giving them this
capability
&gt;&gt; comparing AI to anything that you just
mentioned is lunacy
&gt;&gt; but AI similar to enriched uranium right
and then it can have positive uses it
can have negative uses we still don't
want to send enriched uranium to other
countries
&gt;&gt; who's who's sending enriched
&gt;&gt; the analogy is enriched uranium
&gt;&gt; because it's a lousy it's a lousy
analogy
it's an illogical analogy but if it's if
that computer can run a model that can
do zero day exploits against all
American software How is that not a
weapon?
&gt;&gt; First of all, we got to the way to solve
that problem is to have dialogues with
the researchers and dialogues with China
and dialogues with other countries to
make sure that people don't use
technology in that way. That's a
dialogue that has to happen. Okay.
Number number one. Number two, um we
also need to make sure that United
States is ahead. Everything that Ruben
Vera Rubin Blackwell is available in
United States in abundance.
mounds of it. Obviously, our are our our
results would show it. Abundance of tons
of it. Tons of it. The amount of
computing we have is great. We have
amazing AI resources here. It's great.
We have to stay ahead. However, we also
have to recognize that AI is not just a
model. That AI is a five layer cake.
That AI industry matters across every
single layer. And we want United States
to win at every single layer, including
the chip layer. and conceding the entire
market is not going to allow United
States to win the technology race
long-term in the chip layer in the
computing stack. That is just a fact. I
guess then the crux comes down to how
does selling them chips now help us win
in the long term. Like Tesla sold
extremely good electric vehicles to
China for a long time. iPhones are sold
in China, extremely good. They didn't
cost some lock in. China will still make
their version of EVs and they're
dominating or smartphones dominating.
&gt;&gt; When we started the conversation today,
you would you would acknowledge and you
acknowledged that Nvidia's position is
very different.
You use words like moat. The single most
important thing to our company is our
richness of our ecosystem which is about
developers.
50% of the AI developers are in China.
We don't want to we shouldn't the United
States should not give that up. But we
have a lot of Nvidia developers in the
US and that doesn't prevent American
labs from also being able to use other
accelerators in the future in in fact
right now they're using other
accelerators as well which is fine and
great. I don't I don't see why that
wouldn't be the case in China as well if
you sell them Nvidia chips just the same
way that Google can use TPUs and Nvidia.
&gt;&gt; We have to keep innovating and you know
as you as you probably know our share is
growing not decreasing. the premise that
even if we competed in China that we're
going to lose that market anyways.
I don't you're not talking to somebody
who woke up a loser. And that loser
attitude, that loser premise makes no
sense to me. We are not we're not a car.
We are not a car. it. The fact that I
can buy a car, this car brand one day
and use another car brand another day.
Easy. Computing is not like that.
There's a reason why the x86 still
exists. There's a reason why ARM is so
sticky. These ecosystems, these
ecosystems are hard to replace. It costs
an enormous amount of time and energy
and most people don't want to do it. And
so it's it's our job to continue to
nurture that ecosystem to keep advancing
the technology so that we could compete
in the marketplace. Conceding a
marketplace based on the premise you
described, I simply can't acknowledge
that. It makes no sense because I don't
think the United States is a loser. You
our industry is now a loser. And that
that losing proposition, that losing
mindset makes no sense to me.
&gt;&gt; Okay, I'll move on. I just I just want
to make sure
&gt;&gt; you don't have to move on. I'm enjoying
it.
&gt;&gt; Okay, great. Then then I um I appreciate
that. Um
&gt;&gt; but I think the maybe the crux and
thanks for walking around the circles
with me because then I think it helps
bring out what the crux here is.
&gt;&gt; The crux is you're going to extremes.
Your argument starts from extremes that
if we give them any compute at all in
this narrow moment, we will lose
everything.
&gt;&gt; No, I think what my argument is
&gt;&gt; those extremes they're They're childish.
Yeah.
&gt;&gt; The idea is not that there is some key
threshold of compute is that any
marginal compute is helpful, right? So
if you have more compute, you can train
a better model.
&gt;&gt; And I just want you to acknowledge that
any marginal sales for American
technology industry is bene is
beneficial.
&gt;&gt; I actually don't I mean if the AI models
that run on those chips
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; are capable of cyber offensive
capabilities or training models are
capable of cyber defense is running more
models at those instance. It is not a
nuclear weapon, but it is it enables a
weapon of a kind.
&gt;&gt; The the the logic that you use, you
might as well say it to microprocessors
and DRAMs. You might as well say it to
electricity.
&gt;&gt; But in fact, we do have export controls
on the technology that is relevant to
making the most advanced DRM, right? We
have all kinds of export controls on
China for all kinds of shipping.
&gt;&gt; We we sell a lot of DRM and CPUs into
China. And I think it's right.
&gt;&gt; I guess this goes back to the
fundamental question of is AI different,
right? If you have the kind of
technology that can find these zero days
in software, is that something where we
want to minimize China's ability to get
their first place to be ahead?
&gt;&gt; We can control that.
&gt;&gt; How do we control that if the chips are
already there and they're using that to
train that model?
&gt;&gt; We have tons of compute. We have tons of
AI researchers. We're racing as fast as
we can.
&gt;&gt; Again, we have more nuclear weapons than
anybody else, but we don't want to send
enriched uranium anywhere.
&gt;&gt; We're not enriched uranium.
It's a chip and it's a chip that they
can make themselves.
&gt;&gt; But there's a reason they're buying it
from you, right? And we have quotes from
the founders of Chinese companies that
say that we're bottling that technology
&gt;&gt; because our chips are better. On
balance, our chips are better. There's
just no question about it. In the
absence of our chip, in the absence of
our chip, can you acknowledge that
Huawei had a record year? Can you
acknowledge that a whole bunch of chip
companies have gone public? Can you
acknowledge that?
&gt;&gt; Can you acknowledge that? Can you can
also acknowledge that the fact that we
used to have a very large share in that
market and we no longer have the large
share in that market. We can also
acknowledge that China is about 40% of
the world's technology industry. That
market to leave to leave that market
concede that market for United States
technology industry is a disservice to
our country. It is a disservice to our
national security. It is a disservice to
our to our technology leadership. All
for the benefit all for the benefit of
one company. It makes no sense to me. I
guess I'm confused of it feels like
you're making two different statements.
One is that we're going to win this
competition with Huawei because our
chips are going to be way better if
we're allowed to compete. And another is
that they would be doing the same exact
thing without us anyways. Right? How can
those two things be the same true at the
same time?
&gt;&gt; It's obviously true. In the absence of a
better choice, you'll take the only
choice you have. How is that illogical?
It's so logical.
&gt;&gt; The reason they want Nvidia chips is
they're better. Better is more compute.
More comput means you can train a better
model.
&gt;&gt; It's better. It's better because it's
easier to program. It's e we have a
better ecosystem. Whatever the better
is. Whatever the better is. And of
course we're going to send them compute.
So what? So what the fact of the matter
is we get the benefit. Don't forget we
get the benefit of American technology
leadership. We get the benefit of
developers working on the American tech
stack. We get the benefit as those AI
models diffuse out into the rest of the
world. The American tech stack is
therefore the best for it. We can
continue to advance and diffuse American
technology that I believe is a positive.
It's a very important part of American
technology leadership. Now the policy
that you're advocating resulted in the
American telecommunication industry
being policied out of basically the
world to the point where we don't
control our own telecommunications
anymore. I don't see that as smart.
It's a little narrow-minded and it led
to un unintended consequences that I'm
describing to you right now that you
seem you seem to have a very hard time
understanding.
&gt;&gt; Okay, let let's just step back. It it
seems like the crux here is
&gt;&gt; there's a potential benefit and there's
a potential cost and we're desri we're
trying to figure out is the benefit
worth the cost. I guess I'm trying to
get you to acknowledge the potential
cost that compute is an input to
training powerful models. powerful
models do have powerful, you know,
offensive capabilities like cyber
attacks. It is a good thing that
American companies got to claim mythos
level capabilities first and then now
they're going to hold off on those
capabilities so that the American
companies and American government can
make their software more protected
before this level cap announced if China
had had more computer had more power
comput if we could have had made a
mythos level model earlier and deployed
it widely that would have been very bad.
One of the reasons that hasn't happened
is that we have more compute thanks to
companies like Nvidia in America. Um
that is a cost of sending to China. And
so let's leave the benefit aside for a
second. Do you acknowledge that this is
a potential cost?
I will also tell you the potential cost
is we allow one of the most important
layers of the AI stack, the chip layer
to concede an entire market, the second
largest in second largest market in the
world so that they could develop scale
so that they could develop their own
ecosystem so that future AI models are
optimized in a very different way than
the American tech stack. As AI diffuses
out into the rest of the world,
their standards, their tech stack will
become superior to ours because their
models are open. I
&gt;&gt; I guess I just believe enough in
Nvidia's kernel engineers and CUDA
engineers to think that they could
optimize.
&gt;&gt; AI is more than kernel optimization as
you know,
&gt;&gt; of course, but there's so many things
you can do from distilling to a model
that's well fit for your chips.
&gt;&gt; We're going to do our best.
&gt;&gt; You have all this software. I just hard
to imagine that there's a long-term lock
in to Chinese ecosystem. They have this
like slightly better open source model
for a while.
&gt;&gt; China is the largest contributor to open
source software in the world. Fact,
right? China is the largest contributor
to open models in the world. Fact.
Today it's built on the American tech
stack and
fact. All five layers of the tech stack
for AI is important. United States ought
to go win all five of them. They're all
important.
The one that is the most important of
course is the AI application layer. The
layer that diffuses into society, the
one that uses it most will benefit from
this industrial revolution most.
But my point is that every a every layer
has to succeed.
If we if we scare this country into
thinking that AI is
somehow a nuclear bomb
so that everybody hates AI and
everybody's afraid of AI,
I don't know how you're helping the
United States, you're doing a
disservice. If we scare everybody out of
doing software engineering jobs because
it's going to kill every software
engineering job and we don't have any
software engineers as a result of that,
we're doing a disservice to United
States.
If we scare everybody out of radiology,
so nobody wants to be a radiologist
because computer vision is completely
free and no AI is going to do a worse
job than a radiologist. And we we
misunderstand the difference between a
job and the task the job of a
radiologist patient care task to read a
scan. If we misunderstand that so
profoundly and we scare everybody out of
going to radiology school, we're not
going to have enough radiologists and
good enough healthcare. And so I
I'm making the case
that when you make these make a premise
that is so extreme, everything goes from
zero or infinity.
We end up scaring people in a way that's
just not true. Life is not like that.
Do I do we want United States to be
first? Of course we do.
Do we need do we do we need to be uh a
leader in every layer of that stack?
Of course we do. Of course we do. Is
today you're talking about mythos
because mythos is important. Sure.
That's fantastic. But in a few years
time, I'm making you the prediction that
when we want the American tech stack,
when we want American technology to be
diffused around the world, out to India,
out to the Middle East, out out to to
Africa, out to Southeast Asia, when our
country would like to export because we
would like to export our technology, we
would like to export our standards. On
that day, I want you and I to have that
same conversation again. And I will tell
you exactly about today's conversation
about how your policy and how what you
imagined
literally cause the United States to
concede the second largest market in the
world for no good reason at all. We
shouldn't concede it. If we lose it, we
lose it. But why do we concede it? Now,
nobody is advocating Nobody is
advocating an all or nothing. Nobody's
advocating all or nothing, meaning we
ship everything to China at all times.
Nobody's advocating that we should
always have the best technology here. We
should always have the most technology
here and the first.
But we should also try to compete and
win around the world. Both of those
things can simultaneously happen. It
requires some amount of nuance, some
amount of maturity instead of absolutes.
The world is just not absolutes.
&gt;&gt; Okay. the the argument hinges on they've
built a they've built models that are
specified for their architect their the
best chips that they make in a few years
and those chips get exported around the
world that sets a standard um because of
EUV
um export controls as we said you're
going to move on to 1.6 6 nometer
there's still going to be on 7 nometer
even after a few years from now and it
might make sense that domestically they
would prefer hey we got so much energy
we can manufacture sets scale we'll
still keep using 7 nmter but the
exporting thing their 7 nanometer chips
have to be competitive against your 1.6
nmter chips and their models have to be
so far optimized for the 7 nometer it's
better to run their models on 7
nanometer than to run their models on
your 1.6 6 nometer.
&gt;&gt; Can we can we just look at the facts
then? Okay. Is Blackwell 50 times more
advanced lithography than Hopper? Is it
50 times?
Not even close.
I just kept saying it over and over
again. Moore's law is dead. Between
Hopper and Blackwell from the
transistors themselves, call it 75%. It
was 3 years apart.
75%.
Blackwell is 50 times
hopper.
My point is architecture matters.
Computer science matters. Semiconductor
physics matter as well. But computer
science matters.
AI the impact of AI largely comes from
the computing stack which is the reason
why CUDA is so effective which is the
reason why CUDA is so so so beloved.
It's it's a ecosystem a computing
architecture that allows for so much
flexibility that if you wanted to change
an architecture completely create
something like create something like
diffusion create something you know
that's disagregated you could do you
could do so it's easy to do and so the
fact of the matter is AI is about the
stack above as much as it is about the
architecture below to the extent that
that we have architectures and software
stacks that optimized for our stack, for
our ecosystem. It is obviously good
because we started the conversation
today about how Nvidia's ecosystem is so
rich, why people always love programming
on CUDA first. They do. They do and so
do the researchers in China. But if we
are forced to leave China, if we're
forced to leave China, it would be it
would be well, first of all, it would
it's a policy mistake. obviously has
backlash has has backlash. Obviously, it
has fired, you know, has has uh uh has
turned out badly for for the United
States. It enabled it accelerated their
chip industry. It forced all of their AI
ecosystem to focus on their internal
architectures. It's not too late, but
nonetheless,
it has already happened.
You're going to see in the future
they're not stuck at 7 nanometer.
Obviously they're good at manufacturing.
They will continue to advance from seven
and beyond. Now
is there 10x difference between 5nanmter
and 7 nanometer? The answer is no.
Architecture matters. Networking
matters. That's why Nvidia bought
Melanox. Networking matters. Energy
matters. And so all that stuff matters.
It's not it's not simplistic like the
way you're trying to distill it.
&gt;&gt; Uh we can move on from China, but that
actually raises an interesting question
about um we were discussing earlier
these bottlenecks at TSMC and memory and
so forth. And so if we're in this world
where you know you're already the
majority of N3 at some point you'll be
N2, you'll be a majority of that. Do you
see that you could go back to N7 this
spare capacity at an older process node
and say hey the demand for AI is so
great and our capacity to expand the
leading edge is not meeting it so we're
going to make a hopper or ampier about
everything we know about a numeric today
and all the other improvements you
described do you see that world
happening within before 2030
&gt;&gt; it's not necessary to and the reason for
that is because with every every
generation the architecture
the architecture um is more than just is
more than just uh the transistor scale.
It also you're doing so much engineering
and packaging and stacking and and the
numeric and you know the system
architecture
um
when you run out of capacity
to easily go back to another node that's
a level of R R&amp;D that that no one no one
could afford. You know we we could
afford to lean forward. I don't think we
could afford to go back. Now, if the
world simply says, if on that day, if on
that day, let's do the thought
experiment. On that day, we go, listen,
we're just never going to have more
capacity ever again, would I go back and
use seven in a heartbeat?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, of course I would.
&gt;&gt; Um,
one question somebody I was talking to
had is why Nvidia doesn't run multiple
different chip projects at the same time
with totally different architectures. So
you could do like a cerebra style
&gt;&gt; wafer scale. You could do a dojo style
huge package. You could do one without
CUDA, you know. Um you have the
resources and the engineering talent
&gt;&gt; to do all these in parallel. So why put
all the eggs in one basket given who
knows where AI might go and
architectures might go.
&gt;&gt; Oh, we could. It's just that that we
don't have a better idea.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, we we could do all of those
things. Um
it's just not better. And we simulate it
all. they're in our simulator provably
worse
and so we wouldn't do it.
Yeah, we're we're doing we're working on
exactly the projects that we want to
work on. And and um I
if the workload were to change
dramatically
um and I don't mean I don't mean the
algorithms, I actually mean the
workload. The um and that that depends
on the shape of the market.
um uh we may decide to add other
accelerators like for example recently
we added uh Grock um and we're going to
fold Grock into our CUDA ecosystem
and and um uh we do we're we're doing
that now because the value of tokens
um have gone up so high that that you
could have different pricing of tokens.
Back in the old days in the, you know,
just a couple years ago, tokens are
either free or barely, you know, barely
expensive, right? And so, but now you
can have different customers and those
customers want different answers. And
so, because the customers make so much
money, like for example, our software
engineers, if I can give them much more
um responsive tokens so that they're
even more productive than they are
today, I would pay for it.
&gt;&gt; But that market has only recently
emerged. And so I think that we now have
we now have the ability to have the same
model based on the response time have
different segments and that's the reason
why we decided to expand the paro
frontier and and create a segment of
inference that is faster response time
even though it's lower lower throughput
at the mo until now higher throughput is
always better. Um we we think that there
there could be a world where there could
be very high ASP tokens and and um even
though the even though the throughput is
lower in the factory the ASPs make up
for it.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. That's the reason why we did it.
But otherwise from an architecture
perspective um I I think Nvidia's
architecture is I would I would rather
put if I if I have more money I put more
behind the architecture. M I I think
this idea of extremely premium tokens
and just the disagregation of the
inference market is very interesting.
&gt;&gt; The segmentation y final question um
supposed deep learning if revolution
didn't happen. Um what would Nvidia be
doing? Obviously games but given
&gt;&gt; accelerated computing
&gt;&gt; accelerated computing the same thing
we've been doing all along. I the the
premise of our company is that Moors law
Moore's law is going to more general
purpose computing is good for a lot of
things but for a lot of computation is
not ideal and so we combined an
architecture called a GPU CUDA to a CPU
so that we can accelerate the workload
of the CPU and so different different
kernels of code or algorithms could be
offloaded onto our GPU and as a result
you speed up an an application by you
you know 100x 200x and where can you use
that? Um well obviously engineering and
science and physics and you know so on
so data processing um uh computer
graphics image generation I mean all
kinds of things even if AI doesn't exist
today Nvidia will be very very large
yeah and so so I think the the reason
for that is is fairly fundamental which
is which is the ability for general
purpose computing to continue to scale
has largely run its course and the only
the the not the only way but the the way
to do that is through domain specific
acceleration and one of the domain that
we started with was computer graphics
but many there are many many other
domains I mean there's you know you know
all kinds of uh scient particle physics
and fluids and you know and and so
structured data processing all kinds of
different types of of algorithms that
benefit from CUDA and so our our mission
was uh really to bring accelerated
computing to the world and advance the
type of applications that general
purpose computing can't do and scale to
the level of of uh capability that helps
break through certain fields of science.
And and so some of the early
applications were uh molecular dynamics,
uh seismic processing for energy
discovery,
um uh image processing of course, uh and
so all of those kind of fields where
where general purpose computing is just
simply too inefficient to do so. And so
yeah, if if there was no AI, I would be
very sad. Um, but because of because of
of the advances that we made in
computing, we democratized deep
learning. We made it possible for any
researcher, any scientist anywhere, any
student to be able to access a PC or,
you know, a a GeForce adding card and
and uh do amazing science. And um uh
that that fundamental promise uh hasn't
changed, not even a little bit. And so
if you see GT if you watch GTC, there's
the whole beginning part of it, none of
it's AI. That whole part of it with with
uh computational lithography or or uh
our quantum chemistry work or you know
uh all of that stuff, data processing
work, all of that stuff is is uh
unrelated to AI and and and it's still
very important. I mean there's, you
know, I I know that that AI is is very
interesting and and quite exciting. Um
but but um there's a lot of people doing
a lot of very important work that's not
not AI related and tensors is not the
only way that you compute with
&gt;&gt; and um I and we want to help everybody.
&gt;&gt; It doesn't. Thank you so much.
&gt;&gt; You're welcome. I enjoyed it. Me too.
Sweet.