Kind: captions
Language: en
Hson, thanks so much for joining us
today.
&gt;&gt; So great to have you guys. What an
amazing year.
&gt;&gt; What a year.
&gt;&gt; Happy Hanukkah, merry Christmas,
&gt;&gt; happy new year coming up. Yep. Happy
holidays.
&gt;&gt; So, uh, with everything that's happened
in 2025,
um, and you know, being in the middle of
the vortex with it, what do you reflect
on and say like this surprised you most
or this is the biggest change?
&gt;&gt; Let's see. There there's some things
that didn't surprise me like for example
the scaling laws didn't surprise me
because we already knew about that. The
technology advancement didn't surprise
me. I was pleased with the improvements
of grounding. I was pleased with the
improvements of reasoning. I was pleased
with uh uh the connection of all of the
models to to to search. I'm pleased that
it that uh there are now routers that
are in front of these models so that it
could depending on the confidence of the
answers go off and do necessary research
and and just generally improve the
quality and the accuracy of answers.
&gt;&gt; I'm hugely proud of that. I think the
whole industry addressed one of the
biggest skeptical responses of AI which
is hallucination and um generating
gibberish and all of that stuff. I I
thought that this year the whole
industry everything from every every
field from language to vision to
robotics to self-driving cars the the
application of reasoning
and the grounding of the of of of the
answers. Um big big leaps would you guys
say this year?
&gt;&gt; Huge. I mean things like open evidence
too for medical information where
doctors are now really using that as a
trusted resource like you Harvey for
legal you're really starting to see AI
emerge as one of these things that's
become a trusted tool or counterparty
for you know experts to actually be able
to do what they do much better.
&gt;&gt; That's that's right. And so so in a lot
of ways I was expecting it but I'm still
pleased by it. I'm proud of it. I'm
proud of all of the industry's work in
this area. I'm really pleased and and uh
uh and probably a little bit surprised
in fact that token generation rate for
inference especially reasoning tokens
are growing so fast several exponentials
at the same times it seems and uh and
I'm so pleased that that these tokens
are now profitable that people are
generating I heard somebody hurt today
that that open evidence speaking of them
90% gross margins I mean those are very
profitable tokens.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And so they're obviously doing very
profitable, very valuable work. Cursor,
their margins are great. Uh Claude's
margins are great for the enterprise use
of OpenAI. Their margins are great. Um
so anyways, it's really terrific to see
that that um we're now generating tokens
that are sufficiently good, so good in
value that that people are willing to
pay good money for. And so I I think
these are are really great grounding for
the year. I mean some of the things that
the narrative that that um uh of course
the conversation with China really
really you know occupied a lot of my my
time this year. Geopolitics
uh the importance of technology in each
one of the countries. Uh I spent more
time traveling around the world this
year than just about any time in the h
all of my life combined. You know my
average elevation this year is probably
about 17,000 ft. You know so so it's
nice to be here on the ground with you
guys. Um and so so I think uh
geopolitics the importance of AI to all
the nations uh all worth talking about
later. You know of course I spent a lot
of time on expert control and and making
sure that our strategy is nuanced and uh
really grounded and um uh promotes
national security but recognizing the
importance of various uh various facets
of national security. Um a lot of
conversations around that. Um, you know,
of course, of course, uh, lots of
conversation about jobs, the impact of
AI, uh, energy,
&gt;&gt; um, uh, labor shortage. I mean, boy, we
covered everything, did we? Yeah.
Everything was AI.
&gt;&gt; Everything was AI. Yeah, it was
incredible.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, AI was definitely the center of
the storm for like every one of those
themes. Maybe one we can start with
actually um is jobs because or there
jobs and employment because when I look
at the traditional AI community even
before things were scaling and even
before AI was really working there was a
strong sort of doomsday component in the
people working on AI oddly enough right
the people who were most trying to push
the field forward were often the people
who are most pessimistic which is very
odd why would you do both at once
&gt;&gt; and I feel like that narrative has taken
over some subset of media or some set of
other things despite all the things that
we think are very positive about what AI
has done That's going to help with
healthcare, with education, with
productivity, with all these other
areas.
&gt;&gt; And in in general, whenever we have a
technology shift, you have a shift in
terms of the jobs that are important,
but you still have more jobs.
&gt;&gt; That's right.
&gt;&gt; Could you talk about how you think about
employment and jobs and sort of what
people are saying and what you think the
real narrative is there?
&gt;&gt; Maybe what I'll do is I'll I'll ground
it on uh three points in space, three
points in time. now.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Uh maybe uh uh very near future and then
some some point out out in the distance
and and maybe maybe some
counternarratives.
&gt;&gt; Um something else to think about with
respect to jobs in the near term.
&gt;&gt; Uh one of the most important things is
that that AI is not just AI is software
&gt;&gt; but it's not pre-recorded software as
you know. For example, Excel was written
by several hundred engineers. They
compiled it. It's pre-recorded and then
they distribute it as is for several
years. In the case of AI, because it
takes into the context, what you asked
of it, what's happening in the world,
right? Contextual information, it
generates every single token for the
first time, every time.
&gt;&gt; Which means every time you use the
software and and everything that we do,
AI is being generated for the first time
ever. Just like intelligence, our
conversation today relies on some, you
know, ground truth and some knowledge
and but it's every single word is being
generated for the first time here. The
thing that's really really quite unique
about AI is that it needs these
computers to generate these tokens every
single time. I call them AI factories
because it's producing tokens that will
be, you know, used all over the world.
Now, some people would say it's also
part of infrastructure. The reason why
it's infrastructure is because obviously
it affects every single application.
It's used in every single company. It's
used in every single industry every
single country. Therefore, it's part
infrastructure like energy and and
internet. Now, because of that and the
amount of computers that's necessary to
generate these tokens and it's never
happened before and because we need
these factories, three new industries
have emerged. Number one, well, three
new type of plants have to be created.
Number one, we have to build a lot more
chip plants.
&gt;&gt; Mhm. TSMC is building, right? SKH Highix
building a lot more plants and so we
need more chip plants. We need more
computer plants. These computers are
very different. These are supercomputers
that the world's never seen before.
Right. Grace Blackwell looks like a very
different type of computer than anything
that's ever been made. And entire rack
is one GPU.
&gt;&gt; And so we need new supercomputer plants.
And then we need new AI factories. These
three plants are currently being met
being built in the United States at very
large scale quite broadly all over the
United States for the very first time.
&gt;&gt; The number of construction workers,
plumbers, electricians, technicians,
network engineers, you know, right? The
the number of the skilled labor that's
necessary to support this new industry
in the near term,
&gt;&gt; it'll be enormous. Let's just face it.
Uh I'm [clears throat] so excited to
hear that electricians are seeing their
paychecks double. They're being they're
being paid to travels like like us. We
go on business trips. They're going on
business trips. And so it's really
terrific to see, you know, that this
these three industries are now three
types of plants, factories are just
creating so much so much jobs. The next
part is the the near-term impact of AI
on jobs. And one of my favorites is um I
love Jeff Hinton. uh he said uh you know
some five six seven years ago that in
five years time uh AI will completely
revolutionize radiology that every
single radiology application will be
powered by AI and that radiologists
uh will no longer be needed and that he
would advise this the first profession
not to go into is radiology and he's
absolutely right 100% of radiology
applications are now AI powered. That's
completely true and in some eight years
time it is now completely pervaded uh uh
radiology. However, what's interesting
is that the number of radiologists
increased
&gt;&gt; and so now the question is why and this
is where the difference between task
versus purpose of a job. A job has tasks
and has purpose. And in the case of a
radiologist, the task is to study scans,
but the purpose is to diagnose disease
&gt;&gt; and to research
&gt;&gt; and and that exactly and they're doing
research. And so in the case in their
case, the fact that they're able to
study more scans more deeply,
um they're able to uh request more
scans, do a better job diagnosing
disease, the hospital's more productive,
they can have more patients, which
allows them to make more money, which
allows them to want to hire more
radiologists. And so the question is
what is the purpose of the job versus
what is the task that you do in your
job? And and as you know, I spend most
of my
&gt;&gt; day typing. [snorts] That's my task, but
my purpose is obviously not typing. And
so the fact that somebody could use AI
to automate a lot of my typing, and I
really appreciate that, and it helps a
lot.
&gt;&gt; Um, it hasn't really made me, if you
will, less busy. In a lot of ways, I
become more busy because I'm able to do
more work. So, I think that that's the
second part to consider is the task
versus the purpose of the job. This
example really strikes home because my
my sister-in-law Erin actually leads um
in nuclear medicine at Stanford, right?
So, she's in radiology and with all the
technology advancements that are coming,
&gt;&gt; these doctors really welcome it and they
are working 20 hours a day trying to do
more research and serve more patients.
Exactly. And and I think one thing that
is often missed beyond the sort of um uh
diversity of jobs being created by this
investment in infrastructure is actually
how much latent demand there is for
different goods that we we need in
society like better healthcare. I don't
think anybody feels like you know what
we have reached the the tiptop uh
mountaintop of like what American
healthcare or global healthcare could be
and um the more we can make these people
productive the more demand there will be
&gt;&gt; that's exactly right if I if Nvidia was
more productive it doesn't result in
layoffs it results in us doing more more
things
&gt;&gt; I met your new hire class today you seem
to be hiring every week anyway yeah
&gt;&gt; that's exactly right right the the more
productive we are the more uh ideas we
can explore uh the more growth as as a
result the more profitable we become
which allows us to pursue more ideas and
so I think you're you're absolutely
right that that if if the job if if your
if your life if the world the problems
is literally already specified and
there's no other problem to solve then
productivity would actually reduce the
economy but it's clearly going to
increase the e economy I think that the
Next part that I would consider is, you
know, people say, gosh, all of these
robots that we're talking about, it's
going to take away jobs. As as we know
very clearly, we don't have enough
factory workers. Our economy is actually
limited by the number of factory workers
we have. Most people are are having a
very hard time retaining their workers.
Um, we also know that the number of
truck drivers in the world is severely
short. And the reason for that is people
don't want those jobs where you have to
travel across the country and live in
different parts of the world, different
parts of the country, you know, every
single night. So people want to stay in
their town, stay with their families.
And so I think that I think the first
part is that having robotic systems is
going to allow us to cover the labor
shortage gap which is really really
severe and getting worse because of
aging population. This is this is not
only United States, it's all over the
world as you guys know.
&gt;&gt; And so we're going to cover the labor
shortage. But the second part that
people forget and and as a result we'll
go there are shortages as well in other
places that people talk about AI being
relevant. Accounting would be an example
where there's shortages there. Nursing
is another example. So you know you can
you can go through multiple other
industries and say okay there's gaps
right
&gt;&gt; and AI is trying to help fill those
gaps.
&gt;&gt; That's exactly right. And so so um
automation is going to help us increase
and solve the the the the labor gap. Now
people also don't don't remember that
when we have cars, we need mechanics to
take care of our cars.
&gt;&gt; And if you look at the robo taxis that
are that are even on the streets today,
it's taken 10 years for that to happen.
Look at all the maintenance crews and
all of the the the various, you know,
hubs that they're in where you have to
take care of these robo taxis and just
imagine we have a billion robots.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; It's going to be the largest repair
industry on the planet. So I I think a
lot of people don't they they just have
to think through
&gt;&gt; and this is the part where you said um
when we create this type of automation,
we create this other job. Right now look
at AI is creating so many jobs. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; The AI industry is creating a boom of
jobs.
&gt;&gt; I think one of the core challenges here
is it's very easy to draw a straight
line of extrapolation from like oh you
know uh there are tools that help
lawyers be more productive. It's going
to replace the lawyers but it's actually
it takes like a step of incremental
reasoning to say there's a sucking sound
in the economy for everything in AI
infrastructure. there's actually a
sucking sound toward all of this demand
that is latent in the places where we
have gaps where um I think a lot of
policy makers have focused on you know
we can't replace or reduce what we have
when it's really there's there's far
more demand in what we actually are not
&gt;&gt; and in the case of lawyer what's the
what's the purpose of the lawyer versus
the task of the lawyer
&gt;&gt; reading a contract writing a contract is
not the purpose of the lawyer the
purpose of the lawyer is to help you
resolve conflict
And that's more than reading a contract.
It's more than writing a contract. The
purpose is to protect you. That's more
than reading a contract. It's more than
writing a contract. And so I think just
it's really really important to go back
to what is the purpose of the job versus
the task that we use,
&gt;&gt; you know, to perform that job that
changes over time.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. The other big theme of the year
that you mentioned that I think is
really important to touch upon is both
uh China is sort of in the rise of
Chinese open source in particular where
you know some of the highest scoring
models against benchmarks now are
Chinese models on the open source side
on the closer side it's still a lot of
the US models but things like Quinn
Deepseek etc
&gt;&gt; are doing very well you've long been a
proponent for open source in general
could you could you share views about
both China emerging for AI for open
source and what the US should be doing
in terms of both open source as well as
its own industries
&gt;&gt; when you Think about these complicated
interconnected dependent
um networks of problems. These this you
know big goop of a mesh of problems it's
always good to to go back and find a
framework for what it is that we're
talking about. In the case of AI um what
is AI?
Well, of course, the technology of AI
and the capability, the capabilities of
AI is about automation. It's about
automation of intelligence for the very
first time. And you could combine it
with megatronics technology to embody
that megatronics and and make it perform
tasks.
&gt;&gt; So that's what's AI automation. But what
what is the stack that makes AI
possible? What's the technology stack?
functional stack. And of course the e
the easiest way to think about that is
it's kind of like a fivey year five year
five layer cake which is at the lowest
level is energy.
&gt;&gt; Um it transforms energy to the output
that I just described. The next layer is
chips. The next layer is infrastructure
and that infrastructure is both hardware
software right this is where land power
and shell this is where construction is
data centers are the software stack
&gt;&gt; you know for orchestrating the so it's
software and hardware the layer above
that is where everybody thinks about
which is AI which is the models
&gt;&gt; we know this but it's really helpful to
understand that AI is a system of models
&gt;&gt; and AI is a um a techn technology that
understands information and there's
human information and so we often times
think about AI as a chatbot
&gt;&gt; but remember there's biological
information there's chemical information
there's physical information of all
kinds there's financial information
there's healthcare information there's f
there's information of all modalities
all kinds AI is really really broad and
of course human language is at the
foundation of of many things but it's
not the essence of everything because as
you know you know biology molecules
don't understand English
&gt;&gt; they understand something else right
proteins don't understand English they
understand something else I think the
next layer the important thing is is uh
that's where the AI models are but
there's a whole the AI is very very
diverse and then the the layer above
that is is applications and it depends
on the industry and you already
mentioned open evidence there you
mentioned Harvey there's cursor there's
all kinds of right there's all kinds of
applications full self-driving is really
an application, an AI application that
is embodied into a mechanical car
&gt;&gt; and figure is a AI application that has
been embodied into a mechanical human.
And so, so you got all these different
applications. Well, this five layer
stack is one way of thinking about it.
And then the next way of thinking about
I just mentioned is AI is really
diverse. When you now have this
framework of what the the technology
capabilities are, how to how to build
the technology and how diverse it is,
then you can come back and think about
okay, let's ask the question, how
important is open source? Well, without
open source, you know, today, of course,
the frontier models, the the the leading
labs have chosen to to use a closed
source um application approach, which is
just fine. you know what people decide
to do with their business models is is
really in the final analysis. It's their
business and they have to they have to
calculate what is the best way for them
to get the return on investment so that
they could scale up and and make better
advances. Um however they they made that
calculus is fantastic. On the other
hand, uh without open source, as you
know, startups would be challenged, uh
companies that are in in uh uh different
industries, whether it's manufacturing
or transportation or um it could be in
healthcare. Without open source today,
all of that AI work would be suffocated.
&gt;&gt; And so, they just need to have something
that's pre-trained. They need to have
some fundamental technology about
reasoning. from that they could all
adapt, fine-tune, you know, train their
AI models into exactly the domain and
application they want. And so what
people really really miss is just the
incredible pervasiveness and the
importance of open source to all of
these industries. large companies uh
without without open source some of some
of 100-year-old companies that I work
with
&gt;&gt; in in industrial spaces in healthcare
spaces they would be suffocated they
wouldn't be able to do that
&gt;&gt; open source at this point is driving all
of our data centers is driving a big
chunk of telefan in the world in terms
of Android or other devices it's driving
exactly
&gt;&gt; you know to your point a lot of the
industrial applications so it's already
pervasive and I think the big question
is
&gt;&gt; open source without open source higher
ed
&gt;&gt; higher ed wouldn't happen
&gt;&gt; education research
&gt;&gt; startups I mean the list goes on, you
know, and so so
&gt;&gt; we talk we talk all day long about the
tip but the most visible part of that
the most the part that's most newsworthy
maybe but underneath that is such an
important space of open source AI and
whatever we decide to do with policies
do not damage that innovation flywheel.
So I spent a lot of time uh educating
educating uh uh policy makers to help
them understand whatever you decide
whatever you do don't forget open
source. Whatever you decide whatever you
do don't forget biology.
I think the counternarrative here that
is worth addressing is that essentially
like you know there should be a
monolithic vertical player and
monolithic asset in the like one model
that does it all and that we can't give
away that crown jewel to other countries
or non-American companies and and your
your argument is like we actually need
this huge diversity of AI applications
and and the American advantage is
actually or any any sovereign advantage
is in the whole stack right? The
capability to deliver any piece of it.
&gt;&gt; I guess someday we will have God AI.
&gt;&gt; But when is that day?
&gt;&gt; But but that someday that someday is
probably on biblical scales, you know, I
think galactic scales. Um I I think it's
it's not helpful to go from where we are
today to God AI.
&gt;&gt; And um I don't think any company
practically believes they're anywhere
near God AI. And nor nor do I do I see
any researchers having any reasonable
ability to create god AI. The ability to
h understand human language and genome
language and molecular language and
protein language and amino acid language
and physics language all supremely well.
That god AI just doesn't exist.
&gt;&gt; And and yet we have a lot of industries
that need AI. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; AI is if if you will at the simplistic
level, it's just the next computer
industry.
&gt;&gt; And give me an example of a company, an
industry, a nation who doesn't need
computers.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And we all don't have to wait around for
God AI for us to advance, right? So God
AI is not showing up next week. I'm
fairly certain of that. Okay. And God
[clears throat] AI god AI is not not
going to show up next year, but the
whole world needs to move forward next
week, next year, next decade. I think
that that the idea of a monolithic
gigantic
company,
&gt;&gt; country, nation, state that has got AI
is just
&gt;&gt; it's unhelpful.
&gt;&gt; It's unhelpful. It's too extreme.
&gt;&gt; Then in fact, if you want to take it to
that level, then we ought to just all
stop everything.
What's the point of having even
governments? I mean, why why why are
they doing policies? God AI is going to
be smart enough to avert, you know, work
around any policy. And so, what's the
point? And so, I I think that that we
ought to bring things back to the ground
ground level and start thinking about
things practically and and use common
sense.
&gt;&gt; This seems to be like a big theme in
general in terms of this conversation
where there's been a lot that's been
kind of put out there that seems very
extreme if you actually think about it.
It's the jobs and employment. Nobody's
going to be able to work again. It's God
AI is going to solve every problem. It's
we shouldn't have open source for XYZ
reason despite open source powering much
of our industries already.
&gt;&gt; That's right.
&gt;&gt; And so it seems like in general maybe
one of the themes of 2025 was there's a
lot of extremes that were sort of
painted in the public with AI that if
you look at them very closely don't
really follow a logical change in terms
of happening anytime soon.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And so it's it's it sounds like
it's really important to have this
conversation.
&gt;&gt; Extremely hurtful frankly. And I I think
we've done a lot of damage uh with very
wellrespected people um who have who
have painted a doom doomer narrative um
end of the world narrative science
fiction narrative and um you know and I
and I appreciate that that many of us
grew up in and enjoyed science fiction.
&gt;&gt; Um but I but it's not helpful. It's not
helpful to people. It's not helpful to
the industry. It's not helpful to
society. It's not helpful to the
governments. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; There are a lot of many people in the
government who obviously aren't as
familiar with as as comfortable with the
technology
&gt;&gt; and when PhDs of this and CEOs of that
&gt;&gt; goes to governments and explain and
describe these end of the world
scenarios and extremely extremely
dystopian future the future. Um, you
have to ask yourself, you know, what is
the purpose of that narrative and what
is their what are their intentions and
what do they hope? Why are they why are
they talking to governments about these
things to create regulations to
suffocate startups? [clears throat]
&gt;&gt; For what reason would they be doing
that, you know, and so
&gt;&gt; and do you think that's just regulatory
capture where they're trying to prevent
uh new startups from showing up and
being able to compete effectively or
what do you think is the goal of some of
these conversations? you know, I I can't
I can't um uh guess what they what they
have in mind. I know that the concern is
regulatory capture. As a policy, as a
practice, I don't think companies had to
go to
um governments to advocate
for the regulation on other companies
and other industries. just in practice
their their intentions are clearly
deeply conflicted and and uh their
intentions are clearly you know not
completely in the best interest of
society. I mean they're obviously CEOs
are obviously companies and obviously
they're advocating for themselves
&gt;&gt; and so so I think if we can all
&gt;&gt; come back to where are we today
&gt;&gt; and think about where the technology is
going to be. I mean look lit literally
in one year's time as we were talking
about in the beginning uh some of the
most proud moments is when the industry
was able to invest very aggressively in
advancing AI technology instead of being
slowed down.
&gt;&gt; Remember just two years ago people were
talking about slowing the industry down
&gt;&gt; but as we advanced quickly what did we
solve? We solved grounding, we solved
reasoning. We solved research. All of
that technology was applied for good
improving the functionality of the AI
not you know
&gt;&gt; yet the end has not come
&gt;&gt; yet the end has not come it's become
more useful it's become more functional
it's become able to do what we ask it to
do you know and so the first the first
part of the safety of a product is that
it perform as advertised
&gt;&gt; the first part of safety is performance
that it's is supposed like the first
part of safety of a car isn't that some
person is going to jump into the car and
use it as a missile. The first part of
the car is it works as advertised.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; 99.999%
of the time working as advertised. And
so it takes a lot of technology to make
that car or make that AI work as
advertised. And I'm really glad that in
the last couple two three years the
industry has invested so much in
enhancing the functionality of the AI as
advertised. And I think if if we were to
to look at the next 10 years, we have so
much work to do to make it work as
advertised. Meanwhile, as as you know,
you both of you invest so much in in the
in the ecosystem, you see so many
companies being built for um synthetic
data generation so that the AIs could be
more grounded uh more diverse uh less
biased more safe uh you're investing in
a whole bunch of companies in cyber
security using AI for cyber security you
right people think that there's this AI
um the marginal cost of AI is going to
go go down significantly and it is
&gt;&gt; and therefore the AI is going to be
dangerous. It's exactly the opposite. If
the marginal cost of AI is going to go
down significantly, that one AI is going
to be monitored by millions of AIS.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And more and more AI is going to be
monitoring monitoring each other. People
don't can't forget that an AI is not
going to be an agent by itself. It's
likely the AI is going to be surrounded
by agents monitoring it. And so it's no
different than if the if the marginal
cost of of keeping society safe was
lower. We have police in every corner.
&gt;&gt; So one thing that that we were talking
about a little bit earlier was just the
cost of AI and how it's been coming
down. And so
&gt;&gt; I I think um in 2024 the the cost of
GPT4 equivalent models if you look at a
million tokens it came down over 100x.
Um you know somebody in my team did this
analysis to show that. Uh so the costs
are dropping pretty dramatically and
very rapidly and part of it is all the
advancements you all have been driving
on and the Nvidia level but also just
across the stack getting big efficiency
gains.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um at the same time model companies are
talking about how the costs are rising
how there's enormous sort of capital
modes to building these things out. How
do you think about cost of training and
cost of inference over time and what
that means for the average end user or
the average startup company trying to
compete or people trying to do more in
this industry? I forget the statistic
that but but you know Andre Andre
Cararpathy um estimated the cost of
building the first chatbt I think
&gt;&gt; versus now I think you could do that on
the PC now.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. It's probably tens of
thousands of dollars at this point or
maybe even less.
&gt;&gt; Right. And so it costs nothing.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And and
&gt;&gt; he has an open source project that you
can do in a weekend.
&gt;&gt; Oh, is that right? Okay. That's
incredible. Right. We're talking about
three years. Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; What people people said cost billions of
dollars
um supercomputers built raising billions
of dollars in order to do all that now
&gt;&gt; cost you know something that you can do
on a weekend on a PC. And so that tells
you something about how quickly we're
making making AI more cost effective
&gt;&gt; or Spark sorry probably not quite a PC.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Not quite a PC. Yeah. We're
improving our architecture and
performance
um every single year. The first GBTU I
think was trained on Voltus.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And then uh Ampear
um you know and and it wasn't I think
the first breakthroughs none of it
included Hopper.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And um of course Hopper the last couple
two three years and um uh we're off in
Blackwell for the last year and a half
or so. And um every single one of these
generations the architecture improves
and of course the number of transistors
go up and uh the capacity goes up every
single generation very easily every
every single year from a computing
perspective. The combination of all that
getting 5 to 10x every single year
&gt;&gt; is not unusual. And here comes Reuben
just around the corner. And so we're
seeing 5 to 10x every single year. Well
compounded it's incredible. Moore's law
was two times every year and a half
&gt;&gt; and over the course of five years is 10x
over the course of 10 years is 100x
&gt;&gt; in the in the in the case of AI over the
course of 10 years is probably 100,000
to a millionx okay and that's just the
hardware
&gt;&gt; then the next layer is the algorithm
layer and the model layer the
combination of all that the fact that if
you were to tell me that in the cost in
the in the in in the span of you know 10
years we're going to reduce the cost of
token generation about a billion times.
I would not be surprised.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Okay. And so that's the tokconomics
of of of AI. On the training side, it's
not quite as aggressive in in cost
reduction, but it's close. If you were
to say that that every single year we're
increasing by two or 3x over the course
of 10 years, incredible. But the
important idea is when somebody says it
cost $und00 million to train something
or half a billion dollars to train
something.
Well, next year it's 10 times less. Next
year it's 10 times.
&gt;&gt; For people to scale these things up,
though, right? So the counter argument
is, well, we'll just get bigger every
year by 10x or 100x or, you know, we'll
try to offset that decrease in cost by
scale
&gt;&gt; and others can't keep up.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. But really what's happening is is
you're and and this is where come in as
you know the scale went up by a factor
of 10 but the computational burden did
not go up by a factor of 10 because
you're getting the compounded benefits
of all three things. The hardware is
going up the the algorithms of the
training models are going up and of
course the model architecture is going
up and we're getting the benefit of
learning from each other. This is, you
know, let's face it, Deep Seek was
probably the single most important paper
that most Silicon Valley researchers
read from in the last couple years.
&gt;&gt; It was the only thing that felt frontier
that was open.
&gt;&gt; That's right.
&gt;&gt; In years,
the value of open source again putting
out these papers.
&gt;&gt; Literally, Deep Seek
&gt;&gt; benefited American startups and American
AI labs all over
&gt;&gt; and infrastructure companies
&gt;&gt; and infrastructure company all over.
probably the single greatest
contribution to American AI last year.
&gt;&gt; And so if you said this out loud, of
course, you know, people
&gt;&gt; kind of shudder um that we're uh
American AI is actually getting learning
from and benefiting from uh AI from
other nation. But why would that be
surprising? You know, AI researchers in
all over America, all over America are
uh Chinese natives and come from
different countries. We benefit from
every country. become benefit from every
researcher and no all of the world's
ideas don't have to come from the United
States and so I I think um back to your
your original question it is the case
that
you know some of the narratives around
around the cost of AI is about scaring
everybody out of the market you know
nobody ought to do pre-training but us
nobody should do you know training these
frontier models but us because the
because of innovation of models
algorithms
and the computing stack, the cost of AI
is actually decreasing well more than
10x every single year. And so if you're
just one year behind or even six months
behind, you could you could really stay
close.
&gt;&gt; And I think one thing that felt very
different to me about 2025 is um Ilia uh
said recently that uh you know we're in
the age of research again versus an age
of scaling. I think both things are
happening by the way. Everybody is also
trying to scale on multiple dimensions.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. both are happening.
&gt;&gt; You know, being 6 months behind or being
at 100 versus a 200k cluster, I think
matters if you are competing
symmetrically, but now you have people
from Frontier Labs or um at the very top
of the game who have very different
ideas about how to progress from here or
who are working on diversity of
problems, right? Uh and and I I think
that felt different from 24 maybe where
there was a lot of energy focused on
just pre-training scale and LLM.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. And several several other
dynamics. Um, as the market grows, each
one of these models could choose to have
verticals
&gt;&gt; or segments where they want to
differentiate.
&gt;&gt; Somebody could decide to be a better
coder. Somebody could decide to be just
better at being easier to be accessible
so that it could be a greater consumer
product.
&gt;&gt; You know, the diversity of these models.
As a result, you could you could
probably make a niche leap without
having to be great at everything else
and still be super valuable to the
market.
&gt;&gt; It's no longer necessary to boil the
entire ocean. The f two years ago,
because it was called pre-training pre,
you know, people people said, well, you
know, pre-training is over. First of
all, pre-training is not over. But the
point of pre-training is to train
yourself for training. That's why it's
called pre-training to prepare yourself
to do the real training. And now we call
it post-training. It's kind of weird. I
I think it's just training, but
pre-training is pre-training and
therefore it's training. Training as you
as as we all know is is where uh compute
scaling directly translates to
intelligence. You you've you've largely
now now this the the data the the data
necessary to train a model is actually
pretty small. Maybe it's just the
verifiable results. Now it's really
algorithmic, very compute intensive and
so and you don't have to be good at
everything in life as you know just like
all of us we don't we could decide
because we don't have time to learn
everything equally well. We decide to
choose a specialty and focus all of our
energy on it and we become superhuman or
incredibly good at something that other
people are not. And so I think AI labs
are going to start doing the same.
They're going to start bifurcating into
various segments and over time you're
gonna and startups will do the same.
&gt;&gt; They'll find a micro niche and they'll
take something open and then be
incredibly good at it.
&gt;&gt; Well, I think one of the most optimistic
views here is uh actually that these
microniches are quite valuable, right? I
was talking to Andre um because I've
been talking to a lot of people about
their predictions for next year. We'll
ask you yours as well of course. Um um
but he asked you know what is a what's
an example of a prediction that would
have been preient last year uh and my
answer everything's easy in retrospect
is that coding would be the first
application level business that gets to
a billion of AR as an AI native app
right and I I think if you taken an old
world view of this
&gt;&gt; um you would have believed like one of
two narratives right one is uh single
model does everything and it'll all just
be subsumed into something monolithic
Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And two is that developer tools never
get very big, right? Well, kind of
depends on how valuable the developer
tool is. Now, I think many more people
understand software engineering is in a
niche and there's more demand than ever
for it,
&gt;&gt; but I think we'll see more like that.
&gt;&gt; Also interesting, uh we are using we we
use cursor here and we use cursor
pervasively here. Every engineer uses it
and the number of engineers, you just
mentioned it, the number of people we're
hiring today is just incredible.
&gt;&gt; Yep.
&gt;&gt; Right. Monday is come to work at Nvidia
day and and um uh why is that? Uh this
is now the purpose and the task.
&gt;&gt; The purpose of a software engineer is to
solve known problems
and to find new problems to solve.
Coding is one of the tasks.
&gt;&gt; And so if the purpose is not coding, if
your purpose literally is coding,
somebody tells you what to do, you code
it. All right? Maybe you're going to get
replaced by the AI. But most of our
software engineers, all of our software,
their goal is to solve problems. And it
turns out we have so many problems in
the company and we have so many
undiscovered problems. And so the more
time they have to go explore
undiscovered problems, the better off we
are as a company. Nothing would give me
more joy than if none of them are coding
at all. They're just solving problems.
&gt;&gt; You see what I'm saying? And so I I
think that this framework of purpose
versus task is really good for everybody
to apply. For example, somebody who's a
waiter, their job is to not to take the
order. That's not their job. As it turns
out, their job is so that we have a
great experience. And if somebody if
some AI is taking the order, their job
or even delivering the food, their job
is still helping us have a great
experience. They they would reshape
their jobs accordingly. And so so I
think the um the question about about
cost of compute um uh is really
important. Let's let let me come back to
one the the reason why we are so
dedicated to a programmable architecture
versus a fixed architect. Remember a
long time ago
&gt;&gt; uh a CNN chip came along and they said
Nvidia is done.
&gt;&gt; And then and then a transformer chip
came and Nvidia was done.
&gt;&gt; People are still trying that. Yes.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. NP and and the benefit of these
dedicated AS6 of course it could perform
a job really really well and
transformers is a much more universal AI
network but the transformer as you know
the species of it is growing incredibly
&gt;&gt; the attention mechanism
&gt;&gt; the attention mechanism how it thinks
about context
diffusion versus auto reggressive
&gt;&gt; these hybrid SSM transformation
&gt;&gt; hybrid SSM for example Neotron we just
announced a new hybrid SM SM and and so
the architecture of transformer is in
fact changing very rapidly and over the
next several years it's likely to change
tremendously and so we we dedicate
ourselves to an architecture that's
flexible for this reason so that we can
on the one hand adapt with remember
because MOS law is largely over
transistor benefit is only tens 10%
maybe a couple of years
&gt;&gt; and yet we would like to have hundreds
of X every year and so the benefit is
actually all in algorithms and an
architecture that enables any algorithm
is likely going to be the best one right
because the transistor didn't it didn't
advance that much and so I I think the
the our dedication to programmability is
number one for that reason we have so
much optimism for innovation and
algorithms and iteration software that
we protect our programmability for that
reason the second thing is is by
protecting this architecture
our installed base is really large. When
a software engineer wants to optimize
their algorithm, they want to make sure
that it doesn't run on just one this one
little cloud or this one little stack.
They want it to run on as many mo on as
many computers as possible. So the the
fact that we protect our architecture
compatibility then flash attention runs
everywhere. So SSM run everywhere,
diffusion runs everywhere, auto
reggression runs everywhere. Just
depending it doesn't matter what you
want to do. CNN still run everywhere.
LSTM still runs everywhere. And so that
this this architecture that is
architecturally compatible so that we
have a large installed base programmable
for the future is really important in
the way that we help to advance and as a
result all of this drives the cost down
[clears throat] and and I'm super proud
that that um uh our latest innovation
MVLink72
we're the lowest cost token generation
machine in the world by enormous amounts
and the reason for that is because are
really really hard
&gt;&gt; and so you know people didn't expect
that um that forees it's probably easier
to train but for inference is incredibly
hard to generate tokens on but as as
cost drop usually you open up new
applications or new verticals that
become more and more accessible
&gt;&gt; and we talked a little bit about coding
like cursor and cognition and other
companies that are really benefiting
from that in this last year do you have
any thoughts or predictions in terms of
what the next breakthrough industries
will be or new applications or areas
that you're most excited about coming in
26 in particular like Are there one or
two things that you think will
&gt;&gt; because of three things I because of
because of a couple two three things I I
think I think several industries are
going to are going to experience their
chat moment. Um I believe that
multi-modality
and um very long context is going to
enable of course really really cool chat
bots. Um but the basic architecture that
in combination with breakthroughs in
synthetic data generation is going to
help create the chat GPT moment for
digital biology.
&gt;&gt; That moment is coming.
&gt;&gt; And by digital biology, do you
specifically mean other aspects of like
protein folding or protein binding or
protein diagnosis? I see proteins.
&gt;&gt; I think we're good at protein
understanding. Mhm. Now multi-proin
understanding is coming online and we
recently created a model called LA
prina. It's open. Um it's for
multi-proin
&gt;&gt; um understanding and and represent
representation learning and generation.
Uh so so I think that the protein
understanding is is advancing very
quickly. Now protein generation is going
to advance very quickly. Chat GPD moment
proteins.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. There are a lot of interesting
companies working on molecule design in
endtoend way like chai.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And then and then of course
chemical understanding and chemical
generation and then protein chemical
&gt;&gt; confirmation understanding and
generation. Is that right? And so that
combination the chat GBT moment the
generative AI moment all of that stuff
is coming together for for um digital
biology
&gt;&gt; and to your to your point about like new
industries or you know the way I think
about it is like investing in the inputs
for this AI as well. All of these things
around biology and chemistry and
material science, they require real
world data generation and
experimentation, right? And that's new
infrastructure too.
&gt;&gt; New infrastructure, uh, synthetic data
is going to be really important because
they just have such sparse, right? Spar
sparity of data and they just don't have
as much as human language. And there the
the real breakthrough is going to be
when we can train a a world foundation
model, a foundation model for proteins,
a foundation model for cells. I'm I'm
very excited about both of those things.
Once we have a a foundation model, our
understanding capability, our generative
capability, that data flywheel is really
going to take off.
&gt;&gt; The this this the second area that I'm
excited about, um, of course, reasoning
made huge breakthroughs in language, but
because of reasoning, cars are going to
be able to perform better. So, instead
of just perception cars and planning
cars, they're going to be reasoning
cars. So, these cars are going to be
thinking all the time. And when they
come up they come up to a circumstance
they they've never en encountered before
they can break it down into
circumstances they have encountered it
before and construct a reason reasoning
system for how to navigate through it.
And so the out of domain out of you know
out of distribution
&gt;&gt; part of AI is going to very much be be
addressed by reasoning systems or and as
a result we could do more things than we
were taught to do between uh generative
AI uh and um multimodal uh you know
vision language action models and
reasoning systems. I think we're going
to see big breakthroughs in human robots
or multi-mbodiment robots. you know does
&gt;&gt; what do you think what do you think is a
time frame for that because if you look
at the self-driving analog and obviously
self-driving technologies were based on
very different types of neural networks
than what we're using today in terms of
you know there's been a big swap over
the last two three years
&gt;&gt; in terms of how we do a lot there
&gt;&gt; we started too soon
&gt;&gt; self-driving cars really had four eras
era was smart sensors
&gt;&gt; connected into a car
&gt;&gt; the mobile [clears throat] eye era
&gt;&gt; the mobile eye era and even even the
very earliest days of of
Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Even the earliest days of Whimo,
&gt;&gt; the the um you're talk you're using
smart sensors um a lot of human
engineered algorithms
&gt;&gt; and education severe mapping as far
&gt;&gt; extreme mapping
&gt;&gt; mapping and then different systems for
planning and perception.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. And so so you're essentially
creating a car that is driving on
digital rails, right? It's no different
than than the rails at Disneyland. There
are digital rails. And so that's the
first generation. the second generation.
Um and during that generation you have
perception, world model and planning.
&gt;&gt; Mh.
&gt;&gt; And and the these modules um and each
one of these modules have the limits of
their technology and and perception was
first imple was was first affected by
deep learning uh first and then and then
uh and then it propagated through the
pipeline.
&gt;&gt; And so that but that system was too
brittle
&gt;&gt; and it only knows how to perform what
you taught it. And now where we are are
endtoend models and then and then where
we're going to go next are end to end
models. There you go. So that those are
kind of the four eras in a lot of ways.
If we would have started self-driving
cars probably three years ago,
&gt;&gt; we would probably be exactly the same
place.
&gt;&gt; All our poor friends who were working in
self-driving. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And and I don't I don't mind it. I've
been working on on it for 10 years.
Nvidia's self-driving car stack, by the
way, number one rated safety in the
world today.
&gt;&gt; Number one, we just got we just got that
rating today uh last week. And number
two is Tesla. So, I'm very proud that
two American companies are up on the
&gt;&gt; Are you um So, from a robotics
perspective, you think because we've
already built all these sorts of
technologies in the modern era, robotics
won't have the same 10, 15 years. That's
right.
&gt;&gt; I'm much more optimistic with robotics
because we we've kind of
&gt;&gt; advanced foundational technology.
&gt;&gt; Now, you know, people are thinking about
human robotics. Human robotics has a lot
of challenges. I mean, there's all the
megatronics challenges there. You know,
like for example,
&gt;&gt; it's not helpful if the robot weighs 300
lb
&gt;&gt; and what happens if it falls over and
interacting with kids and so on so
forth. And so, so you got all kinds of
challenges to deal with. I'm certain
that we're going to we're going to solve
those. But remember the fundamental
technology that goes into a human robot
robot can go into a pick and place
robot.
&gt;&gt; Um it could be it could be um how do you
think about one thing I've been curious
about for robotics in particular is if I
look at who won or who who who's
perceived as winning in self-driving.
&gt;&gt; It's largely incumbents, right? It's
Whimo, it's Tesla. You mentioned uh the
safety rating Nvidia's gotten. And so
it's people who've been working on this
for a long time. It took a lot of
capital. It was really intensive to get
there. You have supply chain, you have
hardware, you have all this extra
complexity. Do you think the same thing
will be true in robotics? Are the
winners basically going to be Tesla with
Optimus and other people who have both
been in the industry for a while but
also have all those sort of incumbent
effects? Do you think there's room for
startups?
&gt;&gt; They will be one of the leader one of
the one of them and and and
surely a major one. Um but everything
that moves will be robotic.
&gt;&gt; Everything that moves will be robotic.
And everything that moves is a very
large space. It's not all human or
robot. And yet every AI will be
multi-mbodiment meaning you know just
like just like a human with our m our
multi-mbodiment
AI ourselves
&gt;&gt; we could sit in a car
&gt;&gt; and embody that
&gt;&gt; we could pick up a tennis racket embody
that we could pick up a chopstick embody
that
&gt;&gt; and so we could embody the
&gt;&gt; people are general purpose right they
can do all these things
&gt;&gt; exactly and so AIS are going to become
general purpose so you have one arm pick
and place maybe it's two arms pick and
place could be six arms pick and place,
you know. So, so I think you're going to
have all kinds of different sizes and
shapes. It could be a caterpillar. It
could be, you know, it could be an
excavator. It could be all kinds of
stuff. And so AI will embody those just
as a just as a a construction worker
embodies an excavator embodies a
tractor. You know, they you know,
&gt;&gt; could there be a small number of
companies then that do the embodiment
for everything or are you saying more
there's going to be niche applications?
You should definitely see a lot of
software companies and then those that
software
company could serve a lot of a lot of
different
&gt;&gt; verticals but each one of the verticals
will still have solution providers that
then grounds it all turns it into
something that works perfectly. Does it
make sense? Because in the case of AI
for consumers if it works 90% of the
time you're delighted you you're you
know you're mind blown. If it works 80%
of the time you're satisfied. In the
case of most industrial and physical
AIs, if it works 90% of the time, nobody
cares about that. They only care about
the 10% that it fails. Basically, you
know, 100% dissatisfaction. And so, you
got to take it to 99.99999.
So, the core technology might be able to
get get you to 99%.
&gt;&gt; And then a vertical solution provider
like a Caterpillar or somebody, they
could take that core technology and make
it 99.999%
great. Do you think that's what happens
like earliest on because in in markets
that are this immature it seems one of
the fastest paths to market could be
full verticalization right because you
just have control of iteration speed
&gt;&gt; the different the the difficulty
difficulty of of verticalization for
technology that that is general purpose
is that you don't have the R&amp;D scale to
build a general purpose technology. Now,
of course, open source helps that
tremendously,
&gt;&gt; which is the reason why you're going to
see a, you know, a a big surge of
vertical
opportunities in AI in the next several
years.
&gt;&gt; My my prediction would be over the
course of the next five years, the
excitement is going to be
verticalization.
&gt;&gt; Notice we we're excited about Open
Evidence, we're excited about Harvey,
we're excited about Cursor. cursor is is
a horizontal but it's kind of a
horizontal vertical
&gt;&gt; you know and so um I'm I'm super excited
about all the verticals
&gt;&gt; you know a lot of people said yeah AI is
gonna get so god AI is going to get so
good that all these rapper companies are
going to be obsolete it's just it misses
the big point
&gt;&gt; you know the reason why you could talk
about the reason why somebody can talk
talk about somebody is creating
technology could talk about the life of
a surgeon is because they've never been
a surgeon the reason why somebody who
builds at AI and talk talks about the
life of a accountant and a tax, you
know, a tax expert because they've never
been a tax expert, you know, and so so I
I think they just the reason why
somebody could talk about being a bus
boy without being a bus boy is they
never been a bus boy. And so so I I
think you you you've got to be a little
bit more empathetic about the depth of
the complexity of the work
&gt;&gt; and and tr try to truly understand the
purpose of the work. Often times the the
technology addresses the task, it
doesn't address the purpose. So I guess
one of the other narratives from we're
looking at narratives that are true
versus not true, you know, for 25. One
other narrative that's come up has been
more about energy and energy utilization
and will we have enough energy to
support AI. How do how do you think
about that? On the first week of
President Trump's administration, he
said drill, baby drill. He got so much
flack for that.
If not for this entire change in in
sentiment about energy growth in our
country,
&gt;&gt; we can all concede now we would have
handed this industrial revolution to
somebody else.
&gt;&gt; And we're still power constrained.
&gt;&gt; We're still power constrained. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Without energy, there can be no new
industry.
&gt;&gt; Mhm. And of course, we've been energy
starved now for what, a decade. If not
for the fact that President Trump
reversed that narrative, we would be
completely screwed.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Without energy, you can't have
industrial growth. Without industrial
growth, the the nation can't be more
prosperous. Without being more
prosperous, we can't take care of
domestic issues. We can't take care of
social issues. You know, on and on and
on. And so, the fact of the matter is,
we need energy to grow. We need every
form of energy. We need, you know,
natural gas. We need to be, of course,
we need more energy on the grid. We need
more energy behind the meter. Uh we're
going to need nuclear. Uh wind is not
going to be enough. Solar is not going
to be enough. Let's just all acknowledge
that we'll take it. We'll take
everything we can. Um but the fact that
matters, I think, for the for the next
decade,
&gt;&gt; natural gas, you know, is probably the
the only way to go forward. What's
really interesting is I I agree the
timeline is too far out to address
people's um you know power generation
issues in 27 and 28 where uh you know
large players building clusters are very
concerned but the the biggest drivers of
like climate innovation in the US have
actually been as a result of this AI
infrastructure problem right because
people look at the demand
&gt;&gt; finally that's right demand
&gt;&gt; they look at the demand and the demand
is driving people to create massive of
new battery companies, solar
concentrators. It's put new energy be
new energy like you know willpower
behind
&gt;&gt; SM the AI industry is driving all of
that sustainable energy industry.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Um because people see that there is
going to be demand for it right so even
if and I think there is no practical
answer in the small number of years time
frame versus uh large gas right um uh it
still drives climate innovation. Yeah,
no question about it. No question about
it. And I I think that's exactly right
that that you know doomer messages um
causes policy and that policy may may
affect the industry in some way. But
there's nothing more powerful than
demand. Look at all the jobs that's
being created. Look at all the the
industries that's being formed around
it. um sustainable energy likely and
when history rewrites it as Sarah, I
think you you're going to be absolutely
right that that if not for AI, well AI
was is probably the biggest driver for
sustainable energy ever.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. A friend of mine has a saying that
uh doomers are the people who sound
smart at dinner parties and optimists
are the people who drive humanity
forward. And I think that's very true
for for all these things we've talked
about. Yeah. So
&gt;&gt; yeah, it's really true.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, that that's one of the big
big um takeaways for for uh this last
year, the battle of narratives.
&gt;&gt; And it's too simplistic
um to say that everything that the
doomers are saying are irrelevant.
That's not true. A lot of very sensible
things are being said. Um it is too
simplistic to say that when somebody is
optimistic that they're just naive.
&gt;&gt; It needs to be grounded in reality.
Yeah, that optimistic people are just
naive, you know,
&gt;&gt; and that that's obviously not true.
&gt;&gt; Um, but I think we just have to be
mindful of the balance of it.
&gt;&gt; When 90% of the messaging is all around
the end of the world and doom and the
pessimism and you know, I think we we're
scaring people
&gt;&gt; from making the investments in AI that
makes it safer, more functional, more
productive
&gt;&gt; and more useful to society. And so we
just, you know, more secure. We, you
know, all of that takes technology.
Security takes technology. Safety takes
technology. I appreciate that my car is
safer today because it has better
technology than a car 50 years ago.
&gt;&gt; And so so I I think it takes technology
to be safe, technology to be secure. And
so I I'm I'm I'm delighted to see that
the the advancement of technology is
still accelerating and ongoing. And so
we just have to make sure that the the
policy makers around the world, the
governments um are able to are are
thinking about balancing these two
ideas.
&gt;&gt; How do you So I guess we've talked a lot
about 25
&gt;&gt; and the narratives of 25. How do you
think about 26? What are you excited
about? What do you see coming? What do
you think are big changes that we should
be aware of?
&gt;&gt; I am optimistic that that um our
relationship with China will improve.
Mhm. [clears throat]
&gt;&gt; that President Trump and the
administration um has a really really
grounded and common sense um attitude
about um and philosophy around around
how to think about China that that
they're an adversary
&gt;&gt; um but they're also also a partner in
many ways and that the idea of
decoupling is naive and the idea of
decoupling um for whatever reason
philosophical reasons or national
security reasons It's just not not it's
not based on any common sense and the
more you the more deeply you look into
it the more the two countries are
actually highly coupled.
&gt;&gt; Um both countries ought to ought to
invest in their own independence. Um I
you know when you depend too much on
someone the relationship becomes too
emotional uh as you know [laughter] and
so it's good to have some independence
or as much independence as either either
would like but to recognize that there's
a lot of coupling a lot of dependence
between the two countries and and I
think there's a there needs to be a
nuanced strategy a nuanced attitude
about how to how to how to manage this
relationship in a productive way for all
of the people of two countries and for
all of the people around the world,
everybody depends on a productive,
constructive relationship of the two
most important nations and the single
most important relationship for the next
century. And so we have to find that
answer. And I'm I'm I I'm just really
delighted uh that President Trump is
looking for a constructive answer. And
so I I think that next year uh will be a
much better better better year than the
last several. I'm happy with the
administration was able to to to suggest
a a an export control um policy that is
grounded on national security
recognizing that they already make so
many chips themselves and they they can
depend on Huawei themselves for their
military for their national security.
they got ample technology to do that.
And so that American technology,
although general purpose um is unlikely
to be used by their military because
their military is too smart, just as our
military is too smart to to use their
technology. And so it's grounded on
national security. It's grounded on on
uh technology leadership. It's grounded
on national prosperity. You know, one of
the things that that we just always have
to remember is that the world's
mightiest military uh is supported by
the world's mightiest mil economy. And
so the wealth that we generate um brings
jobs home, creates prosperity in the
United States, um provides for tax
revenues, and ultimately funds the
mightiest military on the planet. And so
that circular system, that
interconnected system requires a nuanced
strategy. and and um uh and and and and
I'm I'm I'm pleased to to to to see some
of the progress in that area that allows
American technology companies to keep
America first and keep America ahead
&gt;&gt; and to to support American technology
leadership on the one hand um to win
globally
&gt;&gt; and and then and then China of course is
sorting itself out you know I mean not
sorting but they're sorting out the
attitude about how to think about
American technology and there
&gt;&gt; because historical argument there has
been that if if you look for example at
the internet um there was what was known
as a great firewall right China
basically
&gt;&gt; prevented US competition into China
while the opposite wasn't as true
&gt;&gt; um there's been mass expatriation of US
jobs and industry to China as sort of
part of the development of the 90s and
2000s and so I think a lot of the things
that people have brought up from a China
US policy perspective besides just the
military adversarial relationship um or
spheres of influence or you know all the
various things like that is also just
the economic imbalances that have
perceived to exist between the two
countries. The way that I would think
through that is go back to the first
principles of technologies again
&gt;&gt; and and let's say the internet you have
the chip industry you have the systems
industry the software industry you have
the services industry on top remember
China's internet growth has been a boon
for Intel and AMD selling CPUs
&gt;&gt; Micron selling DRAM skinex and Samsung
selling DRAM
&gt;&gt; it is the second largest internet
market for American technology industry
&gt;&gt; and so so maybe maybe it wasn't helpful
to some layer of the stack
&gt;&gt; the Googles of the world
&gt;&gt; but don't exclude every layer of the
stack always come back every single one
of these things take a step back and
look at the whole stack
&gt;&gt; maybe that's a theme for today as well
and it makes sense that you would you
would send this message but you know
technology is actually not just the the
sort of internet software application
layer that's been very dominant for two
decades
&gt;&gt; it's the whole stack and Remember as as
as Intel and AMD prospered
&gt;&gt; uh with the internet industry uh in
China growth the China industry growth
don't forget China also contributed
tremendously to open source. No country
in the world contributes more to open
source than China. And look at all the
startups here in America that were able
to benefit from that open source to
create the the new startups that are
here. And so you can't look at one area
in isolation. You have to look at the
whole life cycle of the technology and
look at every layer of the stack. Does
it make sense? When you take a look at
that from that lens,
&gt;&gt; China's internet industry
generated enormous prosperity for
America.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; Just not at the internet company per se.
&gt;&gt; Jensen, my other investor friends will
not forgive me if I don't ask you about
2026 um uh on the business side. Uh are
we in an AI bubble? AI bubble. Yeah,
there's a lot of ways to reason through
that.
&gt;&gt; And so, so again, um, you know, when
when asked that question, my mind goes
to what is AI and where are we in that?
There's AI,
then there's computing. You know, as you
know, Nvidia invented accelerated
computing. Accelerated computing does
computer graphics and rendering. AI
doesn't. Um, accelerated computing does
data processing, SQL data processing. AI
doesn't.
&gt;&gt; Um, accelerated computing does molecular
dynamics and quantum chemistry. AI
doesn't. You know, all these are all
things that people could say someday AI
will, but it doesn't today. Accelerated
computing is really essential for uh
classical machine learning, XG boost,
recommener systems, the whole process of
uh feature engineering, extract, load,
and transform. That entire data science,
machine learning life cycle, accelerated
computing is used for all of that. The
first thing to go to is in the context
of Nvidia.
What we see is the the the dynamic is
the shift from general purpose computing
to accelerated computing because MOS
laws largely ended. You can't use CPUs
for everything anymore like you used to.
And so it's just no longer productive
enough. It's not deflationary enough.
&gt;&gt; And so so we have to move towards a new
computing model. And that's where
accelerator comes in. If you if
generative AI well excuse me if chatbots
let's just go you know open AI and
Anthropic and Gemini if none of that
existed today Nvidia would be a
multiundred billion dollar company and
the reason for that is because as you
know the foundation of computing is
shifting to accelerated computing
&gt;&gt; that's the first thing to to realize is
is to take a step back and ask yourself
what is actually happening now the next
layer up the question about AI now
becomes What is AI? Now, we ask that we
ask the AI bubble question and we always
go back to OpenAI's revenues 100%. Don't
we?
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; You ask somebody, hey, is there an AI
bubble? Everybody goes directly to
OpenAI's revenues. First of all, if
OpenAI currently has twice the capacity,
their revenues would double. You guys
know that if they have 10 times the
capacity, their I really believe their
revenues would 10 times. And so, they
need capacity. This is no different than
Nvidia needs wafers from TSMC. Just
because you know Nvidia exists and and
we're doing great doesn't mean we don't
need capacity. We need capacity. We need
capacity of DRAM. We need and so in our
world it's sensible to everybody. We
need capacity. Well, in their world they
need factories
&gt;&gt; and if they don't have factory capacity
how they generate tokens, which is where
we started our conversation today and so
they need factory capacity in order to
increase their revenue growth. But
nonetheless, we also said that AI is
more than chatbots. It includes all
these different fields of science. Um,
Nvidia's AV business is coming up on 10
billion dollars. Nobody ever talks about
that. And you have to train world
models. You have to train these AI AVs
and it's happening robo taxis happening
all over the world. Our AI work with uh
digital biology, our AI work in
financial services. The whole industry
of quants, quantitative trading is
moving towards Yeah, exactly. They used
to be classical machine learning. A
whole bunch of human featured they call
quants, right? These these specialized
mathematicians were trying to figure out
what the predictive features are. Now we
use AI to figure it out. And so in order
to have instead of having quants, you
need a lot of supercomputers. Financial
services is one of our fastest growing
segments. billions of dollars in in
quants, you know, in financial services,
billions of dollars in AV, billions of
dollars in robotics coming up, billions
of dollars in digital biology. And so
how big can that all that be? Well,
simple logic is this simple math.
Whether you you think that AI is going
to replace shortage, labor shortage or
workforce shortage in any kind, um,
let's ignore that for a second. The
world is at hundred trillion dollars in
GDP. out of that let's just say 2% 2%
annually is R&amp;D and let's just go back
in time five years ago if you were to
take the largest drug discovery company
in the world drug company in the world
and where's all of their R&amp;D wet labs
&gt;&gt; today what are they do doing building
supercomputers
&gt;&gt; and so there's a fundamental shift in
how they think about that $2 trillion
&gt;&gt; it used to be $2 trillion for the old
way of doing things. It's now going to
be $2 trillion in the AI way of doing
things. Well, $2 trillion is going to
need $2 trillion of R&amp;D is going to be
powered by a whole bunch of
infrastructure. And that's the reason
why we're building supercomputers
everywhere around the world. And so so I
think if if you reason about it from the
outside in, you know, either from the
foundation up, from the outside in, you
come to the conclusion that what we're
experiencing, what all three of us are
experiencing, which is the amount of
computing demand is insane.
&gt;&gt; Give me an example of a startup company
that goes, "No, we're good."
&gt;&gt; They are all dying for computing
capacity. Give me an example for a
researcher in any university, a
scientist in any company who says got
plenty of capacity. Everybody is dying
for capacity. And so we have a global
multi- company, multi-industry shortage.
It's not just about open AI even though
open AI could use a lot more capacity as
well. So I think I think how we think
about this what with the narrative the
narrative is not helpful and it's a
little bit too superficial to say how do
you prove there's an AI bubble$12
billion of revenues
hundreds of billions of dollar
infrastructure being built is a little
bit too simplistic.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. The other thing people um tend to
point out is the MIT study. There
there's some study that I think came out
of MIT that claimed that most enterprise
deployments of AI weren't that useful.
And you're like, well, did you do the
change management? Did you do a reorg?
Did you integrate into tooling? Did you
like how long did it even take to
implement it? If a planning cycle in an
enterprise is a year and is something in
six months and so it feels like there's
a lot of these kind of again overstated
things that get a lot of attention, but
then you map it against what's actually
happening.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And the growth of these companies using
AI and it's just a completely different
world. And and and if you want to find
out where the world's innovation's
happening, I would not go find out at an
enterprise.
&gt;&gt; Would you guys agree?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Enterprise is like the slowest adopters
of new technologies. I would go talk to
all of the startups, the 30, 40,000
startups that are currently doing this
stuff. I would go talk to Open Evans.
How how's it working? I would go go talk
to cursor. How's coding working by the
way? You know, I would just go talk to
these people.
&gt;&gt; I think it's really interesting that you
see that. Um, of course you do have
companies making, you know, hundred
million plus, multiund million plus
progress of AR in enterprise sales,
Harvey, Sierra, etc. But some of the
fastest growing companies have been
enduser adopted even in conservative
industries, right? Like healthcare, you
know, skeptical industries like
engineering,
&gt;&gt; healthare, the most right, the most
conservative of all. But guess what?
They are so concerned about getting the
right answer
&gt;&gt; that the ability to have something like
open evidence.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; To do grounded research, high quality
research and get that get that research
as information to you. Nobody wants to
do research. They want answers. Nobody
wants to do search. They want answers.
Is that right?
&gt;&gt; A bridge is a great example of that too
where they're basically making it really
easy to do the physician knows instead
of the physician sitting there and doing
it. Back to your point on task versus
&gt;&gt; task versus purpose. Exactly. And I
think a different way to think about the
demand is like there are so many jobs
where you're asking the the work is
actually like an impossible ask right of
a doctor or a radiologist keep up with
the world's biomedical knowledge in R&amp;D
which is accelerating you know computing
and otherwise um and then
&gt;&gt; like archive papers
&gt;&gt; there was a time you s you and I read
&gt;&gt; you and I both both used to do I don't
do that anymore but here now now I just
load it all into chat
&gt;&gt; GBTh you Now I just load it all in with
all of the the ones that are interesting
and and I make it learn it
&gt;&gt; and then I you know make it summarize
and another summary and I I interact
with it. But but the point is uh we used
to do search. We don't do it that
anymore. I don't do search. We used to
do research. You know the goal is to get
answers. The goal is to get smarter. And
these AIs allow us to help us do all
that. And I think all of it all of it
comes back with it. It's all more
helpful if you come back to the
framework that says AI is a multi-layer
cake
&gt;&gt; and that AI is not just a chatbot. AI is
very very diverse in all of the
industries and modalities and
information and applications that it
addresses. When you think about wanting
to win
&gt;&gt; that America should win AI, it should
not just be America should have this
company win AI, but it we should try to
win across the board
&gt;&gt; and across domains.
&gt;&gt; Across domains. Exactly. And when we
think about open source, all of a sudden
this this is a helpful framework. When
we think about winning, it's a helpful
framework. When we think about uh energy
is a helpful framework that because we
need factories. Factories need energy.
And without energy, we have no factory.
without factories we have no AI that's a
helpful framework and so I think if if
um if we if we have a better
understanding a system a framework for
understanding what AI is I think the
narratives will become more common sense
the narratives will become more
pragmatic
&gt;&gt; become more balanced we want to keep
people safe
&gt;&gt; but one of the best ways to keep people
safe is advancing advancing of
technology quickly
&gt;&gt; and and I think the industry is doing
that and I'm very proud of the industry
for doing that.
&gt;&gt; No one wants to drive a car from, you
know, the first decade of cars. And so I
I think uh
&gt;&gt; ABS is a really good thing.
&gt;&gt; Yes,
&gt;&gt; ABS is a really good thing. Lane keeping
is a really good thing. There's no
question FSD is a really good thing.
&gt;&gt; And I think people will be excited about
the, you know, third or fourth year of
AI.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, no doubt. And and I I say with
great pride that the industry made
tremendous strides this last year.
all the technologies we've mentioned.
Um, and that the scaling laws are so
intact that we we now know that more
compute, more intelligence
&gt;&gt; and and um uh gosh, the the the the
innovations in one in in one sector
diffuses and spreads across all of the
other sectors so fast. I'm so happy to
see all that. And so I think the next
five years it's going to be
extraordinary. No, no doubt about it.
And I think next year is going to be
incredible.
&gt;&gt; Amazing. Well, we're excited to talk to
you at the end of next year, too.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Looking forward to it. Thank you
guys for all the work that you guys do.
Congratulations. What a great year.
&gt;&gt; Wow. Amazing year.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. A lot. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Thank you. Happy New Year. Happy
New Year.
&gt;&gt; Find us on Twitter at No Prior Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
[music] you listen. That way you get a
new episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.